The following Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A") is intended to help the reader understand The Coca-Cola Company, our operations and our present business environment. MD&A is provided as a supplement to and should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes thereto contained in " 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this report. 

The Coca-Cola Company is the world's largest beverage company. We own or license and market more than 500 nonalcoholic beverage brands, primarily sparkling beverages but also a variety of still beverages such as waters, enhanced waters, juices and juice drinks, ready-to-drink teas and coffees, and energy and sports drinks. Coca-Cola, Diet Coke, Fanta and Sprite. Finished beverage products bearing our trademarks, sold in the United States since 1886, are now sold in more than 200 countries. 

We make our branded beverage products available to consumers throughout the world through our network of Company-owned or -controlled bottling and distribution operations, bottling partners, distributors, wholesalers and retailers the world's largest beverage distribution system. Beverages bearing trademarks owned by or licensed to us account for more than 1.9 billion of the approximately 58 billion servings of all beverages consumed worldwide every day. 

We believe our success depends on our ability to connect with consumers by providing them with a wide variety of choices to meet their desires, needs and lifestyle choices. Our success further depends on the ability of our people to execute effectively, every day. 

In our concentrate operations, we typically generate net operating revenues by selling concentrates and syrups to authorized bottling and canning operations (to which we typically refer as our "bottlers" or our "bottling partners"). Our bottling partners either combine the concentrates with sweeteners (depending on the product), still water and/or sparkling water, or combine the syrups with sparkling water to produce finished beverages. The finished beverages are packaged in authorized containers  such as cans and refillable and nonrefillable glass and plastic bottles bearing our trademarks or trademarks licensed to us and are then sold to retailers directly or, in some cases, through wholesalers or other bottlers. Outside the United States, we also sell concentrates for fountain beverages to our bottling partners who are typically authorized to manufacture fountain syrups, which they sell to fountain retailers such as restaurants and convenience stores which use the fountain syrups to produce beverages for immediate consumption, or to authorized fountain wholesalers who in turn sell and distribute the fountain syrups to fountain retailers. 

Our finished product operations consist primarily of Company-owned or -controlled bottling, sales and distribution operations, including CCR. Until December 31, 2015, our Company-owned or -controlled bottling, sales and distribution operations, other than CCR, were included in our Bottling Investments operating segment; and CCR was included in our North America operating segment. Effective January 1, 2016, we transferred CCR's bottling and associated supply chain operations in the United States and Canada from our North America segment to our Bottling Investments segment. Our finished product operations generate net operating revenues by selling sparkling beverages and a variety of still beverages, such as juices and juice drinks, energy and sports drinks, ready-to-drink teas and coffees, and certain water products, to retailers or to distributors, wholesalers and bottling partners who distribute them to retailers. In addition, in the United States, we manufacture fountain syrups and sell them to fountain retailers such as restaurants and convenience stores who use the fountain syrups to produce beverages for immediate consumption or to authorized fountain wholesalers or bottling partners who resell the fountain syrups to fountain retailers. In the United States, we authorize wholesalers to resell our fountain syrups through nonexclusive appointments that neither restrict us in setting the prices at which we sell fountain syrups to the wholesalers nor restrict the territories in which the wholesalers may resell in the United States. 

Includes concentrates sold by the Company to authorized bottling partners for the manufacture of fountain syrups. The bottlers then typically sell the fountain syrups to wholesalers or directly to fountain retailers. 

Includes unit case volume related to concentrates sold by the Company to authorized bottling partners for the manufacture of fountain syrups. The bottlers then typically sell the fountain syrups to wholesalers or directly to fountain retailers. 

We operate in the highly competitive nonalcoholic beverage segment of the commercial beverage industry. We face strong competition from numerous other general and specialty beverage companies. We, along with other beverage companies, are affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, cost to manufacture and distribute products, consumer spending, economic conditions, availability and quality of water, consumer preferences, inflation, political climate, local and national laws and regulations, foreign currency fluctuations, fuel prices and weather patterns. 

Marketing investments are designed to enhance consumer awareness of, and increase consumer preference for, our brands. Successful marketing investments produce long-term growth in unit case volume, per capita consumption and our share of worldwide nonalcoholic beverage sales. Through our relationships with our bottling partners and those who sell our products in the marketplace, we create and implement integrated marketing programs, both globally and locally, that are designed to heighten consumer awareness of and product appeal for our brands. In developing a strategy for a Company brand, we conduct product and packaging research, establish brand positioning, develop precise consumer communications and solicit consumer feedback. Our integrated marketing activities include, but are not limited to, advertising, point-of-sale merchandising and sales promotions. 

We are focusing on marketing strategies to drive volume growth in emerging markets, increasing our brand value in developing markets and growing profit in our developed markets. In emerging markets, we are investing in infrastructure programs that drive volume through increased access to consumers. In developing markets, where consumer access has largely been established, our focus is on differentiating our brands. In our developed markets, we continue to invest in brands and infrastructure programs but generally at a slower rate than gross profit growth. 

The Coca-Cola system has millions of customers around the world who sell or serve our products directly to consumers. We focus on enhancing value for our customers and providing solutions to grow their beverage businesses. Our approach includes understanding each customer's business and needs  whether that customer is a sophisticated retailer in a developed market or a kiosk owner in an emerging market. We focus on ensuring that our customers have the right product and package offerings and the right promotional tools to deliver enhanced value to themselves and the Company. We are constantly looking to build new beverage consumption occasions in our customers' outlets through unique and innovative consumer experiences, product availability and delivery systems, and beverage merchandising and displays. We participate in joint brand-building initiatives with our customers in order to drive consumer preference for our brands. Through our commercial leadership initiatives, we embed ourselves further into our retail customers' businesses while developing strategies for better execution at the point of sale. 

We must continue to improve our franchise leadership capabilities to give our Company and our bottling partners the ability to grow together through shared values, aligned incentives and a sense of urgency and flexibility that supports consumers' always changing needs and tastes. The financial health and success of our bottling partners are critical components of the Company's success. We work with our bottling partners to identify processes that enable us to quickly achieve scale and efficiencies, and we share best practices throughout the bottling system. With our bottling partners, we work to produce differentiated beverages and packages that are appropriate for the right channels and consumers. We also design business models for sparkling and still beverages in specific markets to ensure that we appropriately share the value created by these beverages with our bottling partners. We will continue to build a supply chain network that leverages the size and scale of the Coca-Cola system to gain a competitive advantage. 

Most of our Company beverage products are manufactured, sold and distributed by independent bottling partners. However, from time to time we acquire or take control of bottling operations, often in underperforming markets where we believe we can use our resources and expertise to improve performance. Owning such a controlling interest enables us to compensate for limited local resources; help focus the bottler's sales and marketing programs; assist in the development of the bottler's business and information systems; and establish an appropriate capital structure for the bottler. 

Our Company has a long history of providing world-class customer service, demonstrating leadership in the marketplace and leveraging the talent of our global workforce. In addition, we have an experienced bottler management team. All of these factors are critical to build upon as we manage our bottling and distribution operations. 

The Company has a deep commitment to continuously improving our business. This includes our efforts to develop innovative packaging and merchandising solutions which help drive demand for our beverages and meet the evolving preferences of our consumers. As we further transform the way we go to market, the Company continues to seek out ways to be more efficient. 

Being global provides unique opportunities for our Company. Challenges and risks accompany those opportunities. Our management has identified certain challenges and risks that demand the attention of the nonalcoholic beverage segment of the commercial beverage industry and our Company. Of these, six key challenges and risks are discussed below. 

The rates of obesity affecting communities, cultures and countries worldwide continue to be too high. There is growing concern among consumers, public health professionals and government agencies about the health problems associated with obesity, which results from poor diets that are too high in calories combined with inactive lifestyles. This concern represents a significant challenge to our industry. We understand and recognize that obesity is a complex public health challenge and are committed to being a part of the solution. 

We recognize the uniqueness of consumers' lifestyles and dietary choices. We are working to pair commercial actions with community engagement to bring together business, government and civil society to help pursue solutions that address obesity. 

The heritage of our Company is to lead, and innovation is critical for leadership. As such, we are resolute in continuing to innovate and are committed to partnering to find winning solutions in the area of noncaloric sweeteners. This includes working to reduce caloric sweeteners, and therefore the calories, in our beverages. We want to be a more helpful and credible partner in the fight against obesity. Across the Coca-Cola system, we are mobilizing our assets in marketing and in community outreach to increase awareness and spur action. 

Water quality and quantity is an issue that increasingly requires our Company's attention and collaboration with other companies, suppliers, governments, nongovernmental organizations and communities where we operate. Water is a main ingredient in substantially all of our products, is vital to the production of the agricultural ingredients on which our business relies and is needed in our manufacturing process. It also is critical to the prosperity of the communities we serve. Water is a limited natural resource facing unprecedented challenges from overexploitation, flourishing food demand, increasing pollution, poor management and the effects of climate change. 

Our Company has a robust water stewardship and management program and continues to work to improve water use efficiency, treat wastewater prior to discharge and achieve our goal of replenishing the water that we and our bottling partners source and use in our finished products. We regularly assess the specific water-related risks that we and many of our bottling partners face and have implemented a formal water risk management program. We are actively collaborating with other companies, governments, nongovernmental organizations and communities to advocate for needed water policy reforms and action to protect water availability and quality around the world. We are working with our global partners to develop and implement  sustainability-related water projects that address local needs. We are encouraging improved water efficiency and conservation efforts throughout our system. Through these integrated programs, we believe that our Company is in an excellent position to leverage the water-related knowledge we have developed in the communities we serve  through source water availability assessments and planning, water resource management, water treatment, wastewater treatment systems and models for working with communities and partners in addressing water and sanitation needs. As demand for water continues to increase around the world, we expect commitment and continued action on our part will be crucial to the successful long-term stewardship of this critical natural resource. 

We are impacted by shifting consumer demographics and needs, on-the-go lifestyles, aging populations and consumers who are empowered with more information than ever. As a consequence of these changes, consumers want more choices. We are committed to meeting their needs and to generating new growth through our portfolio of more than 500 brands and more than 3,800 beverage products, including more than 1,100 low- and no-calorie products, new product offerings, innovative packaging and ingredient education efforts. We are also committed to continuing to expand the variety of choices we provide to consumers to meet their ever-changing needs, desires and lifestyles. 

Our Company is facing strong competition from some well-established global companies and many local participants. We must continue to strengthen our capabilities in marketing and innovation in order to maintain our brand loyalty and market share while we strategically expand into other profitable categories of the nonalcoholic beverage segment of the commercial beverage industry. 

As the world's largest beverage company, we strive to meet the highest of standards in both product safety and product quality. We are aware that some consumers have concerns and negative viewpoints regarding certain ingredients used in our products. Our system works every day to share safe and refreshing beverages with the world. We have rigorous product and ingredient safety and quality standards designed to ensure safety and quality in each of our products, and we drive innovation that provides new beverage options to meet consumers' evolving needs and preferences. Across theCoca-Colasystem, we take great care in an effort to ensure that every one of our beverages meets the highest standards for safety and quality. 

We work to ensure consistent safety and quality through strong governance and compliance with applicable regulations and standards. We stay current with new regulations, industry best practices and marketplace conditions and engage with standard-setting and industry organizations. Additionally, we manufacture and distribute our products according to strict policies, requirements and specifications set forth in an integrated quality management program that continually measures all operations within the Coca-Cola system against the same stringent standards. Our quality management system also identifies and mitigates risks and drives improvement. In our quality laboratories, we stringently measure the quality attributes of ingredients as well as samples of finished products collected from the marketplace. 

We perform due diligence to ensure that product and ingredient safety and quality standards are maintained in the more than 200 countries where our products are sold. We consistently reassess the relevance of our requirements and standards and continually work to improve and refine them across our entire supply chain. 

Increased demand for commodities and decreased agricultural productivity in certain regions of the world as a result of changing weather patterns may limit the availability or increase the cost of key agricultural commodities, such as sugarcane, corn, sugar beets, citrus, coffee and tea, which are important sources of ingredients for our products and could impact the food security of communities around the world. We are dedicated to implementing our sustainable sourcing commitment, which is founded on principles that protect the environment, uphold workplace rights and help build more sustainable communities. To support this commitment, our programs focus on economic opportunity, with an emphasis on female farmers, and environmental sustainability designed to help address these agricultural challenges. Through joint efforts with farmers, communities, bottlers, suppliers and key partners, as well as our increased and continued investment in sustainable agriculture, we can together help make a positive strategic impact on food security. 

Management has discussed the development, selection and disclosure of critical accounting policies and estimates with the Audit Committee of the Company's Board of Directors. While our estimates and assumptions are based on our knowledge of current events and actions we may undertake in the future, actual results may ultimately differ from these estimates and assumptions. For a discussion of the Company's significant accounting policies, refer to Note1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Our Company consolidates all entities that we control by ownership of a majority voting interest as well as variable interest entities for which our Company is the primary beneficiary. Generally, we consolidate only business enterprises that we control by ownership of a majority voting interest. However, there are situations in which consolidation is required even though the usual condition of consolidation (ownership of a majority voting interest) does not apply. Generally, this occurs when an entity holds an interest in another business enterprise that was achieved through arrangements that do not involve voting interests, which results in a disproportionate relationship between such entity's voting interests in, and its exposure to the economic risks and potential rewards of, the other business enterprise. This disproportionate relationship results in what is known as a variable interest, and the entity in which we have the variable interest is referred to as a "VIE." An enterprise must consolidate a VIE if it is determined to be the primary beneficiary of the VIE. The primary beneficiary has both (1)the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the entity's economic performance, and (2)the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits from the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE. 

Our Company holds interests in certain VIEs, primarily bottling and container manufacturing operations, for which we were not determined to be the primary beneficiary. Our variable interests in these VIEs primarily relate to profit guarantees or subordinated financial support. Refer to Note11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Although these financial arrangements resulted in our holding variable interests in these entities, they did not empower us to direct the activities of the VIEs that most significantly impact the VIEs' economic performance. Our Company's investments, plus any loans and guarantees, related to these VIEs totaled $2,687 million and $2,274 million as of December31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, representing our maximum exposures to loss. The Company's investments, plus any loans and guarantees, related to these VIEs were not significant to the Company's consolidated financial statements. 

In addition, our Company holds interests in certain VIEs, primarily bottling and container manufacturing operations, for which we were determined to be the primary beneficiary. As a result, we have consolidated these entities. Our Company's investments, plus any loans and guarantees, related to these VIEs totaled $221 million and $266 million as of December31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, representing our maximum exposures to loss. The assets and liabilities of VIEs for which we are the primary beneficiary were not significant to the Company's consolidated financial statements. 

Our Company faces many uncertainties and risks related to various economic, political and regulatory environments in the countries in which we operate, particularly in developing or emerging markets. Refer to the heading "Our Business Challenges and Risks" above and " 1A. Risk Factors" in PartI of this report. As a result, management must make numerous assumptions which involve a significant amount of judgment when completing recoverability and impairment tests of current and noncurrent assets in various regions around the world. 

We perform recoverability and impairment tests of current and noncurrent assets in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. For certain assets, recoverability and/or impairment tests are required only when conditions exist that indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. For other assets, impairment tests are required at least annually, or more frequently, if events or circumstances indicate that an asset may be impaired. 

Our equity method investees also perform such recoverability and/or impairment tests. If an impairment charge is recorded by one of our equity method investees, the Company records its proportionate share of such charge as a reduction of equity income (loss) net in our consolidated statements of income. However, the actual amount we record with respect to our proportionate share of such charges may be impacted by  s such as basis differences, deferred taxes and deferred gains. 

Management's assessments of the recoverability and impairment tests of noncurrent assets involve critical accounting estimates. These estimates require significant management judgment, include inherent uncertainties and are often interdependent; therefore, they do not change in isolation. Factors that management must estimate include, among others, the economic life of the asset, sales volume, pricing, cost of raw materials, delivery costs, inflation, cost of capital, marketing spending, foreign currency exchange rates, tax rates, capital spending and proceeds from the sale of assets. These factors are even more difficult to predict when global financial markets are highly volatile. The estimates we use when assessing the recoverability of current and noncurrent assets are consistent with those we use in our internal planning. When performing impairment tests, we estimate the fair values of the assets using management's best assumptions, which we believe would be consistent with what a hypothetical marketplace participant would use. Estimates and assumptions used in these tests are evaluated and updated as appropriate. The variability of these factors depends on a number of conditions, including uncertainty about future events, and thus our accounting estimates may change from period to period. If other assumptions and estimates had been used when these tests were performed, impairment charges could have resulted. As mentioned above, these factors do not change in isolation and, therefore, we do not believe it is practicable or meaningful to present the impact of changing a single factor. Furthermore, if management uses different assumptions or if different conditions occur in future periods, future impairment charges could result. Refer to the heading "Operations Review" below for additional information related to our present business environment. Certain factors discussed above are impacted by our current business environment and are discussed throughout this report, as appropriate. 

The carrying values of our investments in equity securities are determined using the equity method, the cost method or the fair value method. We account for investments in companies that we do not control or account for under the equity method either at fair value or under the cost method, as applicable. Investments in equity securities, other than investments accounted for under the equity method, are carried at fair value if the fair value of the security is readily determinable. Equity investments carried at fair value are classified as either trading or available-for-sale securities. Realized and unrealized gains and losses on trading securities and realized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities are included in net income. Unrealized gains and losses, net of deferred taxes, on available-for-sale securities are included in our consolidated balance sheets as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) ("AOCI"), except for the change in fair value attributable to the currency risk being hedged, if applicable, which is included in net income. Trading securities are reported as either marketable securities or other assets in our consolidated balance sheets. Securities classified as available-for-sale are reported as either marketable securities or other investments in our consolidated balance sheets, depending on the length of time we intend to hold the investment. Investments in equity securities that do not qualify for fair value accounting or equity method accounting are accounted for under the cost method. In accordance with the cost method, our initial investment is recorded at cost and we record dividend income when applicable dividends are declared. Cost method investments are reported as other investments in our consolidated balance sheets. 

Our investments in debt securities are carried at either amortized cost or fair value. Investments in debt securities that the Company has the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity are carried at amortized cost and classified as held-to-maturity. Investments in debt securities that are not classified as held-to-maturity are carried at fair value and classified as either trading or available-for-sale. 

Investments classified as trading securities are not assessed for impairment, since they are carried at fair value with the change in fair value included in net income. We review our investments in equity and debt securities that are accounted for using the equity method or cost method or that are classified as available-for-sale or held-to-maturity each reporting period to determine whether a significant event or change in circumstances has occurred that may have an adverse effect on the fair value of each investment. When such events or changes occur, we evaluate the fair value compared to our cost basis in the investment. We also perform this evaluation every reporting period for each investment for which our cost basis has exceeded the fair value. The fair values of most of our Company's investments in publicly traded companies are often readily available based on quoted market prices. For investments in nonpublicly traded companies, management's assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows, estimates of sales proceeds and appraisals, as appropriate. We consider the assumptions that we believe hypothetical marketplace participants would use in evaluating estimated future cash flows when employing the discounted cash flow or estimates of sales proceeds valuation methodologies. The ability to accurately predict future cash flows, especially in emerging and developing markets, may impact the determination of fair value. 

In the event the fair value of an investment declines below our cost basis, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. If management determines the decline is other than temporary, an impairment charge is recorded. Management's assessment as to the nature of a decline in fair value is based on, among other things, the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been less than our cost basis, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, and our intent and ability to retain the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value. 

In 2013, four of the Company's Japanese bottling partners merged as Coca-Cola East Japan Bottling Company, Ltd., now known as Coca-Cola East Japan Co., Ltd. ("CCEJ"), a publicly traded entity, through a share exchange. The terms of the agreement included the issuance of new shares of one of the publicly traded bottlers in exchange for 100 percent of the outstanding shares of the remaining three bottlers according to an agreed-upon share exchange ratio. As a result, the Company recorded a net charge of $114 million for those investments in which the Company's carrying value was greater than the fair value of the shares received. These charges were recorded in the line   other income (loss)  net in our consolidated statement of income and impacted the Corporate operating segment. Refer to the heading "Operations Review  Other Income (Loss)  Net" below as well as Note17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Our Company invests in infrastructure programs with our bottlers that are directed at strengthening our bottling system and increasing unit case volume. Additionally, our Company advances payments to certain customers for distribution rights as well as to fund future marketing activities intended to generate profitable volume and expenses such payments over the periods benefited. Payments under these programs are generally capitalized and reported in the line  s prepaid expenses and other assets or other assets, as appropriate, in our consolidated balance sheets. When facts and circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets (or asset groups) may not be recoverable, management assesses the recoverability of the carrying value by preparing estimates of sales volume and the resulting gross profit and cash flows. These estimated future cash flows are consistent with those we use in our internal planning. If the sum of the expected future cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) is less than the carrying amount, we recognize an impairment loss. The impairment loss recognized is the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the fair value. 

As of December31, 2015, the carrying value of our property, plant and equipment, net of depreciation, was $12,571 million, or 14percent of our total assets. Certain events or changes in circumstances may indicate that the recoverability of the carrying amount or remaining useful life of property, plant and equipment should be assessed, including, among others, the manner or length of time in which the Company intends to use the asset, a significant decrease in market value, a significant change in the business climate in a particular market, or a current period operating or cash flow loss combined with historical losses or projected future losses. When such events or changes in circumstances are present and an impairment review is performed, we estimate the future cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset (or asset group) and its eventual disposition. These estimated future cash flows are consistent with those we use in our internal planning. If the sum of the expected future cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) is less than the carrying amount, we recognize an impairment loss. The impairment loss recognized is the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the fair value. We use a variety of methodologies to determine the fair value of property, plant and equipment, including appraisals and discounted cash flow models, which are consistent with the assumptions we believe hypothetical marketplace participants would use. 

Intangible assets are classified into one of three categories: (1)intangible assets with definite lives subject to amortization, (2)intangible assets with indefinite lives not subject to amortization and (3)goodwill. For intangible assets with definite lives, tests for impairment must be performed if conditions exist that indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. For intangible assets with indefinite lives and goodwill, tests for impairment must be performed at least annually or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that assets might be impaired. 

When facts and circumstances indicate that the carrying value of definite-lived intangible assets may not be recoverable, management assesses the recoverability of the carrying value by preparing estimates of sales volume and the resulting gross profit and cash flows. These estimated future cash flows are consistent with those we use in our internal planning. If the sum of the expected future cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) is less than the carrying amount of the asset (or asset group), we recognize an impairment loss. The impairment loss recognized is the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the fair value. We use a variety of methodologies to determine the fair value of these assets, including discounted cash flow models, which are consistent with the assumptions we believe hypothetical marketplace participants would use. 

We test intangible assets determined to have indefinite useful lives, including trademarks, franchise rights and goodwill, for impairment annually, or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that assets might be impaired. Our Company performs these annual impairment reviews as of the first day of our third fiscal quarter. We use a variety of methodologies in conducting impairment assessments of indefinite-lived intangible assets, including, but not limited to, discounted cash flow models, which are based on the assumptions we believe hypothetical marketplace participants would use. For indefinite-lived intangible assets, other than goodwill, if the carrying amount exceeds the fair value, an impairment charge is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. 

The Company has the option to perform a qualitative assessment of indefinite-lived intangible assets, other than goodwill, prior to completing the impairment test described above. The Company must assess whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the intangible asset is less than its carrying amount. If the Company concludes that this is the case, it must perform the testing described above. Otherwise, the Company does not need to perform any further assessment. During 2015, the Company performed qualitative assessments on 25 percent of the carrying value of our indefinite-lived intangible assets other than goodwill. 

We perform impairment tests of goodwill at our reporting unit level, which is one level below our operating segments. Our operating segments are primarily based on geographic responsibility, which is consistent with the way management runs our business. Our operating segments are subdivided into smaller geographic regions or territories that we sometimes refer to as "business units. " These business units are also our reporting units. The Bottling Investments operating segment includes all Company-owned or consolidated bottling operations, regardless of geographic location, except for bottling operations managed by CCR, which are included in our North America operating segment. Generally, each Company-owned or consolidated bottling operation within our Bottling Investments operating segment is its own reporting unit. Goodwill is assigned to the reporting unit or units that benefit from the synergies arising from each business combination. 

The goodwill impairment test consists of a two-step process, if necessary. The first step is to compare the fair value of a reporting unit to its carrying value, including goodwill. We typically use discounted cash flow models to determine the fair value of a reporting unit. The assumptions used in these models are consistent with those we believe hypothetical marketplace participants would use. If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, the second step of the impairment test must be performed in order to determine the amount of impairment loss, if any. The second step compares the implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit's goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, an impairment charge is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. The loss recognized cannot exceed the carrying amount of goodwill. 

The Company has the option to perform a qualitative assessment of goodwill prior to completing the two-step process described above to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill and other intangible assets. If the Company concludes that this is the case, it must perform the two-step process. Otherwise, the Company will forego the two-step process and does not need to perform any further testing. During 2015, the Company performed qualitative assessments on 10 percent of our consolidated goodwill balance. As of December31, 2015, we did not have any reporting unit with a material amount of goodwill for which it is reasonably likely that it will fail step one of a goodwill impairment test in the near term. 

Intangible assets acquired in recent transactions are naturally more susceptible to impairment, primarily due to the fact that they are recorded at fair value based on recent operating plans and macroeconomic conditions present at the time of acquisition. Consequently, if operating results and/or macroeconomic conditions deteriorate shortly after an acquisition, it could result in the impairment of the acquired assets. A deterioration of macroeconomic conditions may not only negatively impact the estimated operating cash flows used in our cash flow models but may also negatively impact other assumptions used in our analyses, including, but not limited to, the estimated cost of capital and/or discount rates. Additionally, as discussed above, in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, we are required to ensure that assumptions used to determine fair value in our analyses are consistent with the assumptions a hypothetical marketplace participant would use. As a result, the cost of capital and/or discount rates used in our analyses may increase or decrease based on market conditions and trends, regardless of whether our Company's actual cost of capital has changed. Therefore, if the cost of capital and/or discount rates change, our Company may recognize an impairment of an intangible asset in spite of realizing actual cash flows that are approximately equal to, or greater than, our previously forecasted amounts. 

On June 12, 2015, the Company closed a transaction with Monster. Under the terms of the transaction, the Company was required to discontinue selling energy products under one of the trademarks included in the glacau portfolio. During the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company recognized impairment charges of $418 million, primarily as a result of discontinuing these products. The total combined fair value of the various trademarks in the glacau portfolio significantly exceeds the remaining combined carrying value of $2.9 billion as of December 31, 2015. However, the fair value of the individual trademark that was the subject of the impairment charges currently equals its carrying value. 

During 2015, the Company also recorded a charge of $55 million related to the impairment of a Venezuelan trademark. The Venezuelan trademark impairment was due to the Company's revised expectations regarding the convertibility of the local currency. 

These charges were recorded in our Corporate operating segment in the line   other operating charges in our consolidated statement of income and were determined by comparing the fair value of the trademarks, derived using discounted cash flow analyses, to the respective carrying value. Management will continue to monitor the fair value of our intangible assets in future periods. 

The Company did not record any significant impairment charges related to intangible assets during the year ended December 31, 2014. During 2013, the Company recorded charges of $195 million related to certain intangible assets. These charges included $113million related to the impairment of trademarks recorded in our Bottling Investments and Asia Pacific operating segments. These impairments were primarily due to a strategic decision to phase out certain local-market brands, which resulted in a change in the expected useful life of the intangible assets, and were determined by comparing the fair value of the trademarks, derived using discounted cash flow analyses, to the current carrying value. Additionally, the remaining charge of $82 million related to goodwill recorded in our Bottling Investments operating segment. This charge was primarily the result of management's revised outlook on market conditions and volume performance. The total impairment charges of $195 million were recorded in our Corporate operating segment in the line   other operating charges in our consolidated statements of income. 

Our Company sponsors and/or contributes to pension and postretirement health care and life insurance benefit plans covering substantially all U.S. employees. We also sponsor nonqualified, unfunded defined benefit pension plans for certain associates and participate in multi-employer pension plans in the United States. In addition, our Company and its subsidiaries have various pension plans and other forms of postretirement arrangements outside the United States. 

Management is required to make certain critical estimates related to actuarial assumptions used to determine our pension expense and obligations. We believe the most critical assumptions are related to (1)the discount rate used to determine the present value of the liabilities and (2)the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. All of our actuarial assumptions are reviewed annually. Changes in these assumptions could have a material impact on the measurement of our pension expense and obligations. 

At each measurement date, we determine the discount rate primarily by reference to rates of high-quality, long-term corporate bonds that mature in a pattern similar to the future payments we anticipate making under the plans. As of December31, 2015 and 2014, the weighted-average discount rate used to compute our pension obligations was 4.25 percent and 3.75 percent, respectively. 

During the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014, and 2013, for plans using the yield curve approach, the Company measured the related service and interest components of net periodic benefit cost for pension and other postretirement benefit plans utilizing the single weighted-average discount rate derived from the yield curve. Effective January 1, 2016, the Company changed the method used to calculate the service and interest components and will measure these costs by applying the specific spot rates along the yield curve to the plans' projected cash flows. The Company believes the new approach provides a more precise measurement of service and interest costs by improving the correlation between projected cash flows and the corresponding spot yield curve rates. The change does not affect the measurement of the Company's pension and other postretirement benefit obligations for those plans and is accounted for as a change in accounting estimate, which is applied prospectively. In 2016, we expect the change in estimate to reduce pension and other postretirement net periodic benefit plan costs by $73 million. 

The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is based upon the long-term outlook of our investment strategy as well as our historical returns and volatilities for each asset class. We also review current levels of interest rates and inflation to assess the reasonableness of our long-term rates. Our pension plan investment objective is to ensure all of our plans have sufficient funds to meet their benefit obligations when they become due. As a result, the Company periodically revises asset allocations, where appropriate, to improve returns and manage risk. The weighted-average expected long-term rate of return used to calculate our pension expense was 8.25 percent in 2015 and 2014. 

In 2015, the Company's total pension expense related to defined benefit plans was $305 million. In 2016, we expect ourtotalpension expense to be $105million. The anticipated decrease is primarily due to settlement and special termination costs incurred in 2015 of $169 million, the new method to calculate service and interest costs described above, an increase in the weighted-average discount rate used to calculate the Company's benefit obligations and the impact of $471 million of contributions the Company made in early 2016 to U.S. pension plans. The impact of these  s will be partially offset by unfavorable asset performance compared to our expected return during 2015 and a decrease in the expected return on assets for U.S. plans. The estimated impact of a 50basis-point decrease in the discount rate on our 2016 pension expense would be an increase to our pension expense of $34million. Additionally, the estimated impact of a 50 basis-point decrease in the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets on our 2016 pension expense would be an increase to our pension expense of $29million. 

The sensitivity information provided above is based only on changes to the actuarial assumptions used for our U.S. pension plans. As of December31, 2015, the Company's primary U.S. plan represented 59 percent and 62 percent of the Company's consolidated projected pension benefit obligation and pension assets, respectively. Refer to Note13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about our pension plans and related actuarial assumptions. 

Effective December 31, 2014, the Company revised our mortality assumptions used to determine the projected benefit obligation of the U.S. defined benefit pension plans. The revised assumptions were derived from the mortality tables and the mortality improvement scales published by the Society of Actuaries in October 2014. The change in mortality assumptions for the U.S. plans resulted in an increase in the projected benefit obligation at December 31, 2014 of $210 million. 

We recognize revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery of products has occurred, the sales price is fixed or determinable and collectibility is reasonably assured. For our Company, this generally means that we recognize revenue when title to our products is transferred to our bottling partners, resellers or other customers. Title usually transfers upon shipment to or receipt at our customers' locations, as determined by the specific sales terms of each transaction. Our sales terms do not allow for a right of return except for matters related to any manufacturing defects on our part. 

Our customers can earn certain incentives which are included in deductions from revenue, a component of net operating revenues in our consolidated statements of income. These incentives include, but are not limited to, cash discounts, funds for promotional and marketing activities, volume-based incentive programs and support for infrastructure programs. Refer to Note1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The aggregate deductions from revenue recorded by the Company in relation to these programs, including amortization expense on infrastructure programs, were $6.8 billion, $7.0 billion and $6.9billion in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. In preparing the financial statements, management must make estimates related to the contractual terms, customer performance and sales volume to determine the total amounts recorded as deductions from revenue. Management also considers past results in making such estimates. The actual amounts ultimately paid may be different from our estimates. Such differences are recorded once they have been determined and have historically not been significant. 

On September 17, 2015, the Company received a Notice from the IRS for the tax years 2007 through 2009, after a five-year audit. In the Notice, the IRS claims that the Company's United States taxable income should be increased by an amount that creates a potential additional federal income tax liability of approximately $3.3billion for the period, plus interest. No penalties were asserted in the Notice; however, the IRS has since taken the position that it is not precluded from asserting penalties and notified the Company that it may do so. 

The IRS designated the matter for litigation on October 15, 2015. The Company firmly believes that the IRS' claims are without merit and plans to pursue all available administrative and judicial remedies necessary to resolve this matter. To that end, the Company filed a petition in U.S. Tax Court on December 14, 2015. The Company believes that the final adjudication of this matter will not have a material impact on its consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows and that it has adequate tax reserves for all tax matters. However, if this dispute were to be ultimately determined adversely to us, the additional tax, interest and any potential penalties could have a material adverse impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Refer to Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

A number of years may elapse before a particular matter for which we have established a reserve is audited and finally resolved. The number of years with open tax audits varies depending on the tax jurisdiction. The tax benefit that has been previously reserved because of a failure to meet the "more likely than not" recognition threshold would be recognized in our income tax expense in the first interim period when the uncertainty disappears under any one of the following conditions: (1)the tax position is "more likely than not" to be sustained, (2)the tax position, amount, and/or timing is ultimately settled through negotiation or litigation, or (3)the statute of limitations for the tax position has expired. Settlement of any particular issue would usually require the use of cash. 

Tax law requires  s to be included in the tax return at different times than when these  s are reflected in the consolidated financial statements. As a result, the annual tax rate reflected in our consolidated financial statements is different from that reported in our tax return (our cash tax rate). Some of these differences are permanent, such as expenses that are not deductible in our tax return, and some differences reverse over time, such as depreciation expense. These timing differences create deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities. The tax rates used to determine deferred tax assets or liabilities are the enacted tax rates in effect for the year and manner in which the differences are expected to reverse. Based on the evaluation of all available information, the Company recognizes future tax benefits, such as net operating loss carryforwards, to the extent that realizing these benefits is considered more likely than not. 

We evaluate our ability to realize the tax benefits associated with deferred tax assets by analyzing our forecasted taxable income using both historical and projected future operating results; the reversal of existing taxable temporary differences; taxable income in prior carryback years (if permitted); and the availability of tax planning strategies. A valuation allowance is required to be established unless management determines that it is more likely than not that the Company will ultimately realize the tax benefit associated with a deferred tax asset. As of December31, 2015, the Company's valuation allowances on deferred tax assets were $477 million and primarily related to uncertainties regarding the future realization of recorded tax benefits on tax loss carryforwards generated in various jurisdictions. Current evidence does not suggest we will realize sufficient taxable income of the appropriate character within the carryforward period to allow us to realize these deferred tax benefits. If we were to identify and implement tax planning strategies to recover these deferred tax assets or generate sufficient income of the appropriate character in these jurisdictions in the future, it could lead to the reversal of these valuation allowances and a reduction of income tax expense. The Company believes it will generate sufficient future taxable income to realize the tax benefits related to the remaining net deferred tax assets in our consolidated balance sheets. 

The Company does not record a U.S. deferred tax liability for the excess of the book basis over the tax basis of its investments in foreign corporations to the extent that the basis difference results from earnings that meet the indefinite reversal criteria. These criteria are met if the foreign subsidiary has invested, or will invest, the undistributed earnings indefinitely. The decision as to the amount of undistributed earnings that the Company intends to maintain in non-U.S. subsidiaries takes into account  s including, but not limited to, forecasts and budgets of financial needs of cash for working capital, liquidity plans, capital improvement programs, merger and acquisition plans, and planned loans to other non-U.S. subsidiaries. The Company also evaluates its expected cash requirements in the United States. Other factors that can influence that determination are local restrictions on remittances (for example, in some countries a central bank application and approval are required in order for the Company's local country subsidiary to pay a dividend), economic stability and asset risk. As of December31, 2015, undistributed earnings of the Company's foreign subsidiaries that met the indefinite reversal criteria amounted to $31.9 billion. Refer to Note14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

The Company's effective tax rate is expected to be 22.5percent in 2016. This estimated tax rate does not reflect the impact of any unusual or special  s that may affect our tax rate in 2016. 

Our organizational structure as of December31, 2015, consisted of the following operating segments, the first six of which are sometimes referred to as "operating groups" or "groups": Eurasia and Africa; Europe; Latin America; North America; Asia Pacific; Bottling Investments; and Corporate. For further information regarding our operating segments, refer to Note19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

In order to continually improve upon the Company's operating performance, from time to time, we engage in buying and selling ownership interests in bottling partners and other manufacturing operations. In addition, we also acquire brands or enter into license agreements for certain brands to supplement our beverage offerings. These  s impact our operating results and certain key metrics used by management in assessing the Company's performance. 

Unit case volume growth is a metric used by management to evaluate the Company's performance because it measures demand for our products at the consumer level. The Company's unit case volume represents the number of unit cases (or unit case equivalents) of Company beverage products directly or indirectly sold by the Company and its bottling partners to customers and, therefore, reflects unit case volume for consolidated and unconsolidated bottlers. Refer to the heading "Beverage Volume" below. 

Concentrate sales volume represents the amount of concentrates and syrups (in all cases expressed in equivalent unit cases) sold by, or used in finished products sold by, the Company to its bottling partners or other customers. Refer to the heading "Beverage Volume" below. 

Our Bottling Investments operating segment and our other finished product operations, including the finished product operations in our North America operating segment, typically generate net operating revenues by selling sparkling beverages and a variety of still beverages, such as juices and juice drinks, energy and sports drinks, ready-to-drink teas and coffees, and certain water products, to retailers or to distributors, wholesalers and bottling partners who distribute them to retailers. In addition, in the United States, we manufacture fountain syrups and sell them to fountain retailers such as restaurants and convenience stores who use the fountain syrups to produce beverages for immediate consumption, or to authorized fountain wholesalers or bottling partners who resell the fountain syrups to fountain retailers. For these consolidated finished product operations, we recognize the associated concentrate sales volume at the time the unit case or unit case equivalent is sold to the customer. Our concentrate operations typically generate net operating revenues by selling concentrates and syrups to authorized bottling and canning operations. For these concentrate operations, we recognize concentrate revenue and concentrate sales volume when we sell concentrate to the authorized unconsolidated bottling and canning operations, and we typically report unit case volume when finished products manufactured from the concentrates and syrups are sold to the customer. When we analyze our net operating revenues we generally consider the following four factors: (1)volume growth (unit case volume or concentrate sales volume, as appropriate), (2)acquisitions and divestitures (including structural changes defined below), as applicable, (3)changes in price, product and geographic mix and (4)foreign currency fluctuations. Refer to the heading "Net Operating Revenues" below. 

We generally refer to acquisition and divestitures of bottling, distribution or canning operations and consolidation or deconsolidation of bottling and distribution entities for accounting purposes as structural changes ("structural changes"). Typically, structural changes do not impact the Company's unit case volume on a consolidated basis or at the geographic operating segment level. We recognize unit case volume for all sales of Company beverage products regardless of our ownership interest in the bottling partner, if any. However, the unit case volume reported by our Bottling Investments operating segment is generally impacted by structural changes because it only includes the unit case volume of our consolidated bottling operations. 

"Acquired brands" refers to brands acquired during the past 12 months. Typically, the Company has not reported unit case volume or recognized concentrate sales volume related to acquired brands in periods prior to the closing of a transaction. Therefore, the unit case volume and concentrate sales volume from the sale of these brands is incremental to prior year volume. We do not generally consider acquired brands to be structural changes. 

"Licensed brands" refers to brands not owned by the Company, but for which we hold certain rights, generally including, but not limited to, distribution rights, and from which we derive an economic benefit when these brands are ultimately sold. Typically, the Company has not reported unit case volume or recognized concentrate sales volume related to these brands in periods prior to the beginning of the term of a license agreement. Therefore, in the year that the licenses are entered into, the unit case volume and concentrate sales volume from the sale of these brands is incremental to prior year volume. We do not generally consider newly licensed brands to be structural changes. 

In 2015, the Company closed a transaction with Monster ("Monster Transaction"), which has been included as a structural change (a component of acquisitions and divestitures) in our analysis of net operating revenues on a consolidated basis as well as for the Eurasia and Africa, Europe, Latin America, North America, Asia Pacific and Corporate operating segments. This transaction consisted of multiple elements including, but not limited to, the acquisition of Monster's non-energy brands and the expansion of our distribution of Monster products into additional U.S. territories. These elements of the transaction impacted the Company's unit case volume and concentrate sales volume and therefore, in addition to being included as a structural change (a component of acquisitions and divestitures), they are also considered acquired brands. See further discussion of this transaction in Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Also during 2015, the Company acquired a South African bottler, which has been included as a structural change (a component of acquisitions and divestitures) in our analysis of net operating revenues on a consolidated basis as well as for the Bottling Investments operating segment. Refer to "Net Operating Revenues" below. 

In 2014, the Company began refranchising territories in North America that were previously managed by CCR to certain of our unconsolidated bottling partners. The impact of these refranchising activities has been included as a structural change (a component of acquisitions and divestitures) in our analysis of net operating revenues on a consolidated basis as well as for our North America operating segment. In addition, for non-Company-owned and licensed beverage products sold in the refranchised territories, we have eliminated the unit case volume and associated concentrate sales from the base year when calculating volume growth rates on a consolidated basis as well as for the North America operating segment. Refer to the headings "Beverage Volume" and "Net Operating Revenues" below. 

In 2014, the Company made a decision to change our process of buying and selling recyclable materials in North America. Also during 2014, the Company transitioned our Russian juice operations to an existing joint venture with an unconsolidated bottling partner and acquired a majority interest in bottling operations in Sri Lanka and Nepal. The impact of these changes is included as a structural change (a component of acquisitions and divestitures) in our analysis of net operating revenues on a consolidated basis as well as for our North America and Bottling Investments operating segments. Refer to the heading "Net Operating Revenues" below. 

In January 2014, the Venezuelan government enacted a new law ("Fair Price Law") that imposes limits on profit margins earned in the country, which limited the amount of revenue the Company was able to recognize in 2014 as compared to 2013. The impact of the Fair Price Law has been included as a structural change in our analysis of operating results for our Latin America segment for the year ended December31, 2014. "Net Operating Revenues" below. 

In 2013, the Company acquired a majority interest in bottling operations in Myanmar, sold a majority interest in our previously consolidated bottling operations in the Philippines and deconsolidated our bottling operations in Brazil as a result of their combination with an independent bottling partner. Accordingly, the impact to net operating revenues related to these transactions is included as a structural change (a component of acquisitions and divestitures) in our analysis of net operating revenues for our Bottling Investments segment. Refer to the heading "Net Operating Revenues" below. 

The Company sells concentrates and syrups to both consolidated and unconsolidated bottling partners. The ownership structure of our bottling partners impacts the timing of recognizing concentrate revenue and concentrate sales volume. When we sell concentrates or syrups to our consolidated bottling partners, we are not able to recognize the concentrate revenue or concentrate sales volume until the bottling partner has sold finished products manufactured from the concentrates or syrups to a third party or independent customer. When we sell concentrates or syrups to our unconsolidated bottling partners, we recognize the concentrate revenue and concentrate sales volume when the concentrates or syrups are sold to the bottling partner. The subsequent sale of the finished products manufactured from the concentrates or syrups to a customer does not impact the timing of recognizing the concentrate revenue or concentrate sales volume. When we account for an unconsolidated bottling partner as an equity method investment, we eliminate the intercompany profit related to these transactions until the equity method investee has sold finished products manufactured from the concentrates or syrups to a third party or independent customer. 

The Company is currently pursuing certain transactions that, if completed, will be included as structural changes for the applicable periods. In November 2014, the Company and two of our existing bottling partners entered into an agreement to combine each of the parties' bottling operations in Southern and East Africa. In August 2015, the Company entered into an agreement to merge our German bottling operations with the bottling operations of two of our existing bottling partners. Subject to receiving any required regulatory and shareholder approvals, we expect each of these transactions to close during the second quarter of 2016. Additionally, in 2016 we announced our intent to refranchise 100 percent of Company-owned North America bottling territories by the end of 2017. The Company also announced that we have entered into a non-binding letter of intent to refranchise Company-owned bottling operations in China to two of our existing bottling partners. 

We measure the volume of Company beverage products sold in two ways: (1)unit cases of finished products and (2)concentrate sales. As used in this report, "unit case" means a unit of measurement equal to 192 U.S. fluid ounces of finished beverage (24 eight-ounce servings); and "unit case volume" means the number of unit cases (or unit case equivalents) of Company beverage products directly or indirectly sold by the Company and its bottling partners to customers. Unit case volume primarily consists of beverage products bearing Company trademarks. Also included in unit case volume are certain products licensed to, or distributed by, our Company, and brands owned by Coca-Cola system bottlers for which our Company provides marketing support and from the sale of which we derive economic benefit. In addition, unit case volume includes sales by certain joint ventures in which the Company has an equity interest. We believe unit case volume is one of the measures of the underlying strength of the Coca-Cola system because it measures trends at the consumer level. The unit case volume numbers used in this report are derived based on estimates received by the Company from its bottling partners and distributors. Concentrate sales volume represents the amount of concentrates and syrups (in all instances expressed in equivalent unit cases) sold by, or used in finished beverages sold by, the Company to its bottling partners or other customers. Unit case volume and concentrate sales volume growth rates are not necessarily equal during any given period. Factors such as seasonality, bottlers' inventory practices, supply point changes, timing of price increases, new product introductions and changes in product mix can impact unit case volume and concentrate sales volume and can create differences between unit case volume and concentrate sales volume growth rates. In addition to the  s mentioned above, the impact of unit case volume from certain joint ventures in which the Company has an equity interest but to which the Company does not sell concentrates or syrups may give rise to differences between unit case volume and concentrate sales volume growth rates. 

The Coca-Cola system sold 29.2 billion, 28.6 billion and 28.2 billion unit cases of our products in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The number of unit cases sold in 2015 and 2014 does not include certain licensed beverage brands sold in the North American refranchised territories and certain brands owned by our Russian juice company. Refer to the heading "Structural Changes, Acquired Brands and Newly Licensed Brands" above. The Company eliminated the unit case volume related to these structural changes from the base year, where applicable, when calculating the volume growth rates. 

Unit case volume in Eurasia and Africa increased 3 percent, which consisted of 2 percent growth in sparkling beverages and 6percent growth in still beverages. The group's sparkling beverage growth included 3 percent growth in Trademark Coca-Cola, and the growth in still beverages was led by packaged water and juices and juice drinks. Eurasia and Africa benefited from unit case volume growth of 8 percent, 6 percent and 2 percent in the Central, East & West Africa, Southern Africa, and Middle East & North Africa business units, respectively, partially offset by a decline of 4 percent in the Russia, Ukraine & Belarus business unit. 

In Europe, unit case volume grew 2 percent, reflecting 7 percent growth in still beverages and 1 percent growth in sparkling beverages. The growth in still beverages was driven by the group's performance in packaged water, teas, sports drinks and the expansion of the innocent brand. The group's sparkling beverage growth included 9 percent growth in Coca-Cola Zero and 4percent growth in Trademark Fanta. 

Unit case volume in Latin America grew 1 percent as a result of growth in still beverages of 4 percent and even sparkling beverage volume. The growth in still beverages was led by growth in packaged water, juices and juice drinks and sports drinks. The Latin Center and South Latin business units reported unit case volume growth of 4 percent and 3 percent, respectively. The Mexico business unit reported unit case volume growth of 3 percent, reflecting growth in Trademark Coca-Cola of 3 percent. The growth in the Latin Center, South Latin and Mexico business units was partially offset by a unit case volume decline of 4percent in the Brazil business unit. 

In North America, unit case volume grew 1 percent. This increase reflects 5 percent growth in still beverage volume and even sparkling beverage volume. The still beverage growth in the group was led by 8 percent growth in packaged water and 6percent growth in teas. After considering the impact of the acquired volume resulting from the Monster Transaction, North America unit case volume growth remained 1percent. 

Unit case volume in Asia Pacific increased 4 percent, which consisted of 4 percent growth in both sparkling and still beverage volume. The sparkling beverage volume growth was led by a 5 percent increase in Trademark Coca-Cola, a 4 percent increase in Trademark Sprite and a 6 percent increase in Trademark Fanta. Still beverage volume growth was led by increases in packaged water and teas of 12percent and 6 percent, respectively. China's unit case volume grew 5 percent during the year, led by 12 percent growth in Trademark Coca-Cola and 3 percent growth in Trademark Sprite. India reported unit case volume growth of 4 percent and Japan reported even volume during the year. 

Unit case volume for Bottling Investments increased 8 percent. This increase primarily reflects the growth in China and India. In addition, unit case volume in Germany grew 2 percent. The Company's consolidated bottling operations accounted for 34percent, 69 percent, and 100 percent of the unit case volume in China, India and Germany, respectively. 

Unit case volume in Eurasia and Africa increased 4 percent, which consisted of 3 percent growth in sparkling beverages and 8percent growth in still beverages. The group's sparkling beverage growth included 2 percent growth in Trademark Coca-Cola, 3 percent growth in Trademark Sprite, and 2 percent growth in Trademark Fanta. Growth in the group's still beverages was led by packaged water, juices and juice drinks and teas. The group's growth reflects a continued focus on improved marketplace execution and providing greater consumer choice in package and price options. Eurasia and Africa benefited from unit case volume growth of 7 percent and 6 percent in the Middle East & North Africa and Central, East & West Africa business units, respectively. This growth was partially offset by a decline in unit case volume of 1 percent in the Russia, Ukraine & Belarus business unit. 

In Europe, unit case volume declined 2 percent as a result of a decline in sparkling beverages of 3 percent, partially offset by growth in still beverages of 1 percent. The decline in sparkling beverages reflects the softness in the macroeconomic environment and continuing competitive pressures in the market. The growth in still beverages was led by growth in juices and juice drinks. 

Unit case volume in Latin America increased 1 percent reflecting growth in still beverages of 6 percent and even sparkling beverage volume. The growth in still beverages was led by packaged water, value-added dairy and sports drinks. Latin America benefited from unit case volume growth of 6 percent and 2 percent in the Latin Center and Brazil business units, respectively, partially offset by a volume decline of 1 percent in the Mexico business unit. The decline in Mexico was primarily due to the impact of a new excise tax that went into effect on January 1, 2014. 

In North America, unit case volume was even, reflecting 1 percent growth in still beverages offset by a decline of 1 percent in sparkling beverages. The still beverage growth was led by 8 percent growth in packaged water and 4 percent growth in teas. 

Unit case volume in Asia Pacific increased 5 percent, which consisted of 5 percent growth in sparkling beverages and 4 percent growth in still beverages. The growth in sparkling beverages was led by a 5 percent increase in Trademark Sprite, a 4 percent increase in Trademark Fanta and a 3 percent increase in brand Coca-Cola. Still beverage volume growth was led by packaged water and growth in teas and value-added dairy of 6 percent and 10 percent, respectively. China's unit case volume grew 4percent, led by 5percent growth in brand Coca-Cola and 6 percent growth in Trademark Fanta. India reported double-digit volume growth, and Japan reported a volume decline of 1 percent, reflecting 1 percent growth in sparkling beverages offset by a 1 percent decline in still beverages. 

Unit case volume for Bottling Investments decreased 2 percent. This decrease primarily reflects the deconsolidation of our bottling operations in Brazil during July 2013 as a result of their combination with an independent bottling partner. The unfavorable impact of these transactions on the group's unit case volume results was partially offset by growth in other key markets, including China and India, where we own or otherwise consolidate bottling operations. The Company's consolidated bottling operations accounted for 35 percent and 65 percent of the unit case volume in China and India, respectively. 

In 2015, worldwide concentrate sales volume and unit case volume both grew 2 percent compared to 2014. After considering the impact of structural changes, concentrate sales volume grew 1 percent during the year ended December 31, 2015. In 2014, worldwide concentrate sales volume and unit case volume both grew 2percent compared to 2013. After considering the impact of structural changes, concentrate sales volume grew 1 percent during the year ended December 31, 2014. The differences between concentrate sales volume and unit case volume growth rates worldwide and for individual operating segments in 2015 and 2014 were primarily due to the timing of concentrate shipments and the impact of unit case volume from certain joint ventures in which the Company has an equity interest, but to which the Company does not sell concentrates, syrups, beverage bases or powders. 

Represents the percent change in net operating revenues attributable to the increase (decrease) in concentrate sales volume for our geographic operating segments (expressed in equivalent unit cases) after considering the impact of structural changes. For our Bottling Investments operating segment, this represents the percent change in net operating revenues attributable to the increase (decrease) in unit case volume after considering the impact of structural changes. Our Bottling Investments operating segment data reflects unit case volume growth for consolidated bottlers only. Refer to the heading "Beverage Volume" above. 

"Acquisitions and Divestitures" refers to acquisitions and divestitures of brands or businesses, some of which the Company considers to be structural changes. Refer to the heading "Structural Changes, Acquired Brands and Newly Licensed Brands" above for additional information related to the structural changes. The acquisitions and divestitures percent change for 2015 versus 2014 in the table above consisted entirely of structural changes. 

The unfavorable impact of foreign currency fluctuations decreased our consolidated net operating revenues by 7percent. This unfavorable impact was primarily due to a stronger U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies, including the South African rand, euro, U.K. pound sterling, Brazilian real, Mexican peso, Australian dollar and Japanese yen, which had an unfavorable impact on our Eurasia and Africa, Europe, Latin America, Asia Pacific and Bottling Investments operating segments. Refer to the heading "Liquidity, Capital Resources and Financial Position Foreign Exchange" below. 

Net operating revenue growth rates are impacted by sales volume; acquisitions and divestitures; price, product and geographic mix; and foreign currency fluctuations. The size and timing of acquisitions and divestitures are not consistent from period to period. The Company currently expects acquisitions and divestitures to have a mid single-digit unfavorable impact on full year 2016 net operating revenues. Based on current spot rates and our hedging coverage in place, we expect currencies will continue to have an unfavorable impact on our full year 2016 net operating revenues. 

Represents the percent change in net operating revenues attributable to the increase (decrease) in concentrate sales volume for our geographic operating segments (expressed in equivalent unit cases) after considering the impact of structural changes. For our Bottling Investments operating segment, this represents the percent change in net operating revenues attributable to the increase (decrease) in unit case volume after considering the impact of structural changes. Our Bottling Investments operating segment data reflects unit case volume growth for consolidated bottlers only. Refer to the heading "Beverage Volume" above. 

"Acquisitions and Divestitures" refers to acquisitions and divestitures of brands or businesses, some of which the Company considers to be structural changes. Refer to the heading "Structural Changes, Acquired Brands and Newly Licensed Brands" above for additional information related to the structural changes. The acquisitions and divestitures percent change for 2014 versus 2013 in the table above consisted entirely of structural changes. The impact of the Venezuelan Fair Price Law reduced our Latin America segment revenues by 5 percent in 2014. 

The unfavorable impact of foreign currency fluctuations decreased our consolidated net operating revenues by 2percent. The unfavorable currency impact was primarily due to a stronger U.S. dollar compared to certain other foreign currencies, including the South African rand, Mexican peso, Brazilian real, Australian dollar and Japanese yen, which had an unfavorable impact on our Eurasia and Africa, Latin America, Asia Pacific and Bottling Investments operating segments. The unfavorable impact of a stronger U.S. dollar compared to the currencies listed above was partially offset by the impact of a weaker U.S. dollar compared to certain other foreign currencies, including the euro and British pound, which had a favorable impact on our Europe and Bottling Investments operating segments. Refer to the heading "Liquidity, Capital Resources and Financial Position Foreign Exchange" below. 

The percentage contribution of each operating segment fluctuates over time due to net operating revenues in certain operating segments growing at a faster rate compared to other operating segments. Net operating revenue growth rates are impacted by sales volume; acquisitions and divestitures; price, product and geographic mix; and foreign currency fluctuations. For additional information about the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, refer to the heading "Liquidity, Capital Resources and Financial Position Foreign Exchange" below. 

As a result of our finished goods operations, which are primarily included in our North America and Bottling Investments operating segments, the following inputs represent a substantial portion of the Company's total cost of goods sold: (1)sweeteners, (2)metals, (3)juices and (4)PET. The Company enters into hedging activities related to certain commodities in order to mitigate a portion of the price risk associated with forecasted purchases. Many of the derivative financial instruments used by the Company to mitigate the risk associated with these commodity exposures, including any related foreign currency exposure, do not qualify for hedge accounting. As a result, the changes in fair value of these derivative instruments have been, and will continue to be, included as a component of net income in each reporting period. The Company recorded losses related to these derivatives of $206 million, $8 million and $120 million during the years ended December31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, in the line   cost of goods sold in our consolidated statements of income. Refer to Note5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We do not currently expect changes in commodity costs to have a significant impact on our 2016 gross profit margin as compared to 2015. 

Our gross profit margin decreased to 60.5 percent in 2015 from 61.1 percent in 2014. The decrease was primarily due to the impact of acquisitions and divestitures and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, partially offset by positive price mix and slightly lower commodity costs. Refer to Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to acquisitions and divestitures. 

Our gross profit margin increased to 61.1 percent in 2014 from 60.7 percent in 2013. The increase was partially due to the deconsolidation of our Brazilian bottling operations in July 2013 as well as lower commodity costs, primarily in our North America finished goods business, and favorable geographic mix. Refer to Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the impact of the deconsolidation of our Brazilian bottling operations. 

The favorable geographic mix was primarily due to growth in emerging markets. Although this shift in geographic mix has a negative impact on net operating revenues, it generally has a favorable impact on our gross profit margin due to the correlated impact it has on our product mix. The product mix in the majority of our emerging and developing markets is more heavily skewed toward our sparkling beverage products, which generally yield a higher gross profit margin compared to our still beverages and finished products. 

Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $791 million, or 5percent. During the year ended December 31, 2015, fluctuations in foreign currency decreased selling, general and administrative expenses by 6percent. The increase in stock-based compensation was primarily due to reversals in 2014 of previously recognized expenses related to the Company's long-term incentive programs as performance criteria were not achieved. The increase in advertising expenses reflects the Company's increased investments to strengthen our brands, partially offset by a foreign currency exchange impact of 13percent. The decrease in selling and distribution expenses reflects the impact of acquisitions and divestitures. The decrease in other operating expenses reflects the shift of the Company's marketing spending to more consumer-facing advertising expenses as well as savings from our productivity and reinvestment initiatives. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations have a more significant impact on both advertising and other operating expenses as compared to our selling and distribution expenses since they are generally transacted in local currency. Our selling and distribution expenses are primarily related to our Company-owned bottling operations, of which the majority of expenses are attributable to CCR and are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars. Refer to Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to acquisitions and divestitures. 

In 2016, our pension expense is expected to decrease by $200 million compared to 2015. The anticipated decrease is primarily due to settlement and special termination costs incurred in 2015 of $169 million, the new method to calculate service and interest costs, an increase in the weighted-average discount rate used to calculate the Company's benefit obligations and the impact of $471million of contributions the Company made in early 2016 to U.S. pension plans. The impact of these  s will be partially offset by unfavorable asset performance compared to our expected return during 2015 and a decrease in the expected return on assets for U.S. plans. Refer to the heading "Liquidity, Capital Resources and Financial Position" below for information related to these contributions. Refer to the heading "Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Pension Plan Valuations" above and Note13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to the pension plan assumptions used by the Company. 

As of December31, 2015, we had $319 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested share-based compensation arrangements granted under our plans. This cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.8 yearsas stock-based compensation expense. This expected cost does not include the impact of any future stock-based compensation awards. Refer to Note12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $92 million, or 1percent. Foreign currency fluctuations decreased selling, general and administrative expenses by 2percent. The decrease in stock-based compensation was primarily due to reversals in 2014 of previously recognized expenses related to the Company's long-term incentive compensation programs. The increase in advertising expenses reflects the company's increased investment to strengthen our brands. This increase was partially offset by a foreign currency exchange impact of 4 percent. The decrease in selling and distribution expenses is a result of the refranchising of certain territories in North America in 2014 and the deconsolidation of our Brazilian bottling operations as a result of their combination with an independent bottling partner in July 2013. 

In 2015, the Company incurred other operating charges of $1,657 million. These charges included $691 million due to the Company's productivity and reinvestment program and $292 million due to the integration of our German bottling operations. In addition, the Company recorded impairment charges of $418 million primarily due to the discontinuation of the energy products in the glacau portfolio as a result of the Monster Transaction and incurred a charge of $100 million due to a cash contribution we made to The Coca-Cola Foundation. The Company also incurred a charge of $111 million due to the write-down we recorded related to receivables from our bottling partner in Venezuela and an impairment of a Venezuelan trademark primarily due to changes in exchange rates as a result of the establishment of the new open market exchange system. Refer to Note18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Company's productivity, integration and restructuring initiatives. Refer to Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Monster Transaction. Refer to Note1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Venezuelan currency change. Refer to Note19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the impact these charges had on our operating segments. 

In 2014, the Company incurred other operating charges of $1,183 million. These charges primarily consisted of $601 million due to the Company's productivity and reinvestment program and $208 million due to the integration of our German bottling operations. In addition, the Company incurred a charge of $314 million due to a write-down we recorded related to receivables from our bottling partner in Venezuela and an impairment of a Venezuelan trademark primarily due to higher exchange rates. The write-down was recorded as a result of our revised assessment of the U.S. dollar value we expect to realize upon the conversion of the Venezuelan bolivar into U.S. dollars by our bottling partner to pay our concentrate sales receivables. The Company also recorded a loss of $36 million as a result of the restructuring and transition of the Company's Russian juice operations to an existing joint venture with an unconsolidated bottling partner. Refer to Note18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and see below for additional information on our productivity and reinvestment program as well as the Company's other productivity, integration and restructuring initiatives. Refer to Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Venezuelan currency rate change. Refer to Note19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the impact these charges had on our operating segments. 

In 2013, the Company incurred other operating charges of $895 million, which primarily consisted of $494 million associated with the Company's productivity and reinvestment program; $195 million due to the impairment of certain intangible assets; $188 million due to the Company's other productivity, integration and restructuring initiatives; and $22 million due to charges associated with certain of the Company's fixed assets. Refer to Note17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the impairment charges. Refer to Note18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and see below for further information on the Company's productivity and reinvestment program, as well as the Company's other productivity, integration and restructuring initiatives. Refer to Note19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the impact these charges had on our operating segments. 

In February 2012, the Company announced a four-year productivity and reinvestment program designed to further enable our efforts to strengthen our brands and reinvest our resources to drive long-term profitable growth. This program is focused on thefollowing initiatives: global supply chain optimization; global marketing and innovation effectiveness; operating expenseleverage and operational excellence; data and information technology systems standardization; and the integration of Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc.'s ("Old CCE") former North America business. 

In February 2014, the Company announced the expansion of our productivity and reinvestment program to drive an incremental $1 billion in productivity by 2016 that will primarily be redirected into increased media investments. Our incremental productivity goal consists of two relatively equal components. First, we will expand savings through global supply chain optimization, data and information technology system standardization, and resource and cost reallocation. Second, we will increase the effectiveness of our marketing investments by transforming our marketing and commercial model to redeploy resources into more consumer-facing marketing investments to accelerate growth. 

In October 2014, the Company announced that we are further expanding our productivity and reinvestment program and extending it through 2019. The expansion of the productivity initiatives will focus on four key areas: restructuring the Company's global supply chain, including manufacturing in North America; implementing zero-based work, an evolution of zero-based budget principles, across the organization; streamlining and simplifying the Company's operating model; and further driving increased discipline and efficiency in direct marketing investments. The Company expects that the expanded productivity initiatives will generate an incremental $2 billion in annualized productivity. This productivity will enable the Company to fund marketing initiatives and innovation required to deliver sustainable net revenue growth and will also support margin expansion and increased returns on invested capital over time. We expect to achieve total annualized productivity of approximately $3.6 billion by 2019 from the initiatives implemented under this program since it began in 2012. 

We have incurred total pretax expenses of $2,056 million since the initiative commenced in 2012. Refer to Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

In 2008, the Company began the integration of our German bottling operations acquired in 2007. Since the integration commenced, the Company has incurred total pretax expenses of $1,127 million primarily related to involuntary terminations. We are currently reviewing additional restructuring opportunities within the German bottling operations, including integration costs related to information technology and other initiatives. If implemented, these initiatives will result in additional charges in future periods. Our German bottling operations are now classified as held for sale. Refer to Note18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

In 2015, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations unfavorably impacted consolidated operating income by 12percent. This unfavorable impact was primarily due to a stronger U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies, including the South African rand, euro, U.K. pound sterling, Brazilian real, Mexican peso, Australian dollar and Japanese yen, which had an unfavorable impact on our Eurasia and Africa, Europe, Latin America, Asia Pacific and Bottling Investments operating segments. Refer to the heading "Liquidity, Capital Resources and Financial Position Foreign Exchange" below. 

During the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company's operating income was unfavorably impacted by the refranchising of additional territories in North America and the sale of the Company's energy brands as part of the Monster Transaction. The refranchising activities unfavorably impacted our North America operating segment and the sale of the energy brands unfavorably impacted our Eurasia and Africa, Europe, Latin America, North America and Asia Pacific operating segments. Refer to Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

Operating income for Eurasia and Africa for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 was $987 million and $1,084million, respectively. The segment was unfavorably impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates of 16percent, partially offset by favorable pricing across most of the segment's business units. 

Operating income for Europe for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 was $2,888 million and $2,852 million, respectively. The Europe group was favorably impacted by a reduction in other operating charges primarily related to the Company's productivity and reinvestment program. The favorable impact of the reduction in other operating charges was partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations of 3 percent. 

Operating income for the Latin America segment for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 was $2,169 million and $2,316 million, respectively. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations unfavorably impacted operating income by 31percent, partially offset by the reduction in other operating charges and favorable price mix in all of the segment's business units. 

North America's operating income for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 was $2,490 million and $2,447 million, respectively. The segment was favorably impacted by price increases and product and package mix, partially offset by an increase in other operating charges. 

Operating income in Asia Pacific for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 was $2,189 million and $2,448 million, respectively. Operating income for the segment reflects the unfavorable impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations of 8 percent. 

Our Bottling Investments segment's operating income for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 was zero and $9million, respectively. The Bottling Investments segment was unfavorably impacted by an increase in other operating charges partially offset by the favorable impact of acquisitions and divestitures. Refer to Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to acquisitions and divestitures. 

The Corporate segment's operating loss for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 was $1,995 million and $1,448million, respectively. Operating loss in 2015 was unfavorably impacted by an impairment charge of $418 million primarily related to the discontinuation of the energy products in the glacau portfolio as a result of the Monster Transaction, a charge of $100 million due to a cash contribution we made to The Coca-Cola Foundation and a $111 million charge due to an impairment of a Venezuelan trademark and a write-down the Company recorded on receivables from our bottling partner in Venezuela. 

In 2014, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations unfavorably impacted consolidated operating income by 6percent. The unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates was primarily due to a stronger U.S. dollar compared to certain other foreign currencies, including the South African rand, Mexican peso, Brazilian real, Australian dollar and Japanese yen, which had an unfavorable impact on our Eurasia and Africa, Latin America, Asia Pacific and Bottling Investments operating segments. The unfavorable impact of a stronger U.S. dollar compared to the currencies listed above was partially offset by the impact of a weaker U.S. dollar compared to certain other foreign currencies, including the euro and British pound, which had a favorable impact on our Europe and Bottling Investments operating segments. Refer to the heading "Liquidity, Capital Resources and Financial Position Foreign Exchange" below. 

Operating income for Eurasia and Africa for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 was $1,084 million and $1,087million, respectively. The segment was unfavorably impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates of 12percent. The unfavorable impact of the foreign currency exchange rates was offset by favorable pricing across many of the segment's markets. 

Europes operating income for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 was $2,852 million and $2,859 million, respectively. The Europe group was favorably impacted by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations of 2percent. The favorable impact of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations was offset by lower concentrate sales volume and increased charges related to the Companys productivity and reinvestment program. 

Operating income in Latin America for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 was $2,316 million and $2,908 million, respectively. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and the Venezuelan Fair Price Law unfavorably impacted operating income by 12percent and 9 percent, respectively. Operating income was also unfavorably impacted by the write-down of receivables from our local bottling partner in Venezuela. Refer to Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the write-down of receivables. The impact of these  s was partially offset by favorable price mix in all of the segment's business units. 

North America's operating income for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 was $2,447 million and $2,432 million, respectively. The segment was favorably impacted by positive price mix and lower commodity costs, partially offset by increased marketing investments. 

Operating income in Asia Pacific for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 was $2,448 million and $2,478 million, respectively. Operating income was favorably impacted by a 5percent increase in concentrate sales and a reduction in operating expenses, offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations of 8 percent. 

Our Bottling Investments segment's operating income for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 was $9 million and $115 million, respectively. The primary reason for the decrease in operating income was the deconsolidation of the Company's Brazilian bottling operations in July 2013 and increased restructuring expenses incurred by our German bottling operations. In addition, fluctuations in foreign currency unfavorably impacted the segment's 2014 operating income by 4 percent. 

The Corporate segment's operating loss for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 was $1,448 million and $1,651million, respectively. Operating loss in 2013 was unfavorably impacted by a $195 million charge due to the impairment of certain intangible assets. 

Interest income was $613 million in 2015, compared to $594 million in 2014, an increase of $19 million, or 3 percent. The increase primarily reflects higher average cash and investment balances and higher average interest rates in certain of our international locations, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates due to a stronger U.S. dollar against most major currencies. 

Interest income was $594 million in 2014, compared to $534 million in 2013, an increase of $60million, or 11percent. The increase primarily reflects higher cash balances and higher average interest rates in certain of our international locations, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates due to a stronger U.S. dollar against most major currencies. 

Interest expense was $856 million in 2015, compared to $483 million in 2014, an increase of $373 million, or 77 percent. The increase is primarily due to charges of $320 million the Company recorded on the early extinguishment of certain long-term debt. These charges included the difference between the reacquisition price and the net carrying amount of the debt extinguished, including the impact of the related fair value hedging relationship. Interest expense also increased as a result of an overall increase in the total debt balances and a shift in the mix of our debt portfolio from short-term to long-term debt. During the year ended December31, 2015, the Company issued SFr1,325million, 8,500million and $4,000 million of long-term debt. Refer to Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to the Company's hedging program. Refer to the heading "Liquidity, Capital Resources and Financial Position  Cash Flows from Financing Activities  Debt Financing" below and Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to the Company's long-term debt. 

Interest expense was $483 million in 2014, compared to $463 million in 2013, an increase of $20 million, or 4 percent. The increase primarily reflects the impact of additional long-term debt the Company issued during late 2013 and 2014 as well as the unfavorable impact of interest rate swaps. In addition, interest expense in 2013 included charges related to the Company's early extinguishment of long-term debt. Refer to Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to the Company's hedging program. Refer to the heading "Liquidity, Capital Resources and Financial Position  Cash Flows from Financing Activities  Debt Financing" below for additional information related to the Company's long-term debt. 

Equity income (loss) net represents our Company's proportionate share of net income or loss from each of our equity method investees. In 2015, equity income was $489 million, compared to equity income of $769 million in 2014, a decrease of $280 million, or 36 percent. This decrease reflects, among other  s, the unfavorable impact of the challenging economic conditions around the world where many of our equity method investees operate and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates due to a stronger U.S. dollar against most major currencies. The impact of these  s was partially offset by the impact of acquisitions of equity investees. Refer to Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

In 2014, equity income was $769 million, compared to equity income of $602 million in 2013, an increase of $167 million, or 28percent. This increase was primarily due to more favorable operating results reported by several of our equity method investees, a decrease in the impact of unusual or infrequent charges recorded by certain of our equity method investees, and the deconsolidation of our Brazilian bottling operations during 2013, which is now an equity method investee. This increase was partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign currency fluctuations. 

Other income (loss) net includes, among other things, the impact of foreign currency exchange gains and losses; dividend income; rental income; gains and losses related to the disposal of property, plant and equipment; gains and losses related to business combinations and disposals; realized and unrealized gains and losses on trading securities; realized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities; other-than-temporary impairments of available-for-sale securities; and the accretion of expense related to certain acquisitions. The foreign currency exchange gains and losses are primarily the result of the remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities from certain currencies into functional currencies. The effects of the remeasurement of these assets and liabilities are partially offset by the impact of our economic hedging program for certain exposures on our consolidated balance sheets. Refer to Note5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

In 2015, other income (loss)  net was income of $631 million. This income included a net gain of $1,403 million as a result the Monster Transaction, primarily due to the difference in the recorded carrying value of the assets transferred, including an allocated portion of goodwill, compared to the value of the total assets and business acquired. Other income (loss) net also included net foreign currency exchange gains of $149million and dividend income of $83 million. This income was partially offset by noncash losses of $1,006million due to refranchising activities in North America. The net foreign currency exchange gains included a gain of $300 million associated with our foreign-denominated debt partially offset by a charge of $27 million due to the initial remeasurement of the net monetary assets of our Venezuelan subsidiary using the SIMADI exchange rate. The Company determined that based on its economic circumstances, the SIMADI rate best represented the applicable rate at which future transactions could be settled, including the payment of dividends. As such, the Company remeasured the net assets related to its operations in Venezuela using the current SIMADI rate. Refer to Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Monster Transaction and North America refranchising. Refer to the heading "Liquidity, Capital Resources and Financial Position  Foreign Exchange" below and Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the charge due to the change in Venezuelan exchange rates. 

In 2014, other income (loss)  net was a loss of $1,263million, primarily due to noncash losses of $799 million related to the refranchising of certain territories in North America and foreign exchange losses of $569 million, including a charge of $372million due to the remeasurement of the net monetary assets of our Venezuelan subsidiary using the SICAD 2 exchange rate. These charges were partially offset by dividend income of $51 million and net gains of $45 million related to fluctuations in the carrying value of the Company's trading securities and sales of available-for-sale securities. Refer to Note 1, Note2 and Note17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

In 2013, other income (loss)  net was income of $576 million, primarily related to a gain of $615 million due to the deconsolidation of our Brazilian bottling operations as a result of their combination with an independent bottling partner; a gain of $139 million as a result of Coca-Cola FEMSA, an equity method investee, issuing additional shares of its own stock at per share amounts greater than the carrying value of the Company's per share investment; and dividend income of $70 million. The favorable impact of these  s was partially offset by a charge of $140 million due to the devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar, which resulted in the Company remeasuring the net assets related to its operations in Venezuela, and a net charge of $114 million related to our investment in four bottling partners that merged during 2013 to form CCEJ through a share exchange. Refer to Note2 and Note17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Our effective tax rate reflects the tax benefits of having significant operations outside the United States, which are generally taxed at rates lower than the U.S. statutory rate of 35.0 percent. As a result of employment actions and capital investments made by the Company, certain tax jurisdictions provide income tax incentive grants, including Brazil, Costa Rica, Singapore and Swaziland. The terms of these grants expire from 2016 to 2023. We anticipate that we will be able to extend or renew the grants in these locations. Tax incentive grants favorably impacted our income tax expense by $223 million, $265 million and $279million for the years ended December31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. In addition, our effective tax rate reflects the benefits of having significant earnings generated in investments accounted for under the equity method of accounting, which are generally taxed at rates lower than the U.S. statutory rate. 

Includes a pretax charge of $27 million (or a 0.1 percent impact on our effective tax rate) due to the remeasurement of the net monetary assets of our local Venezuelan subsidiary into U.S. dollars using the SIMADI exchange rate. Refer to Note 1 and Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Includes a tax benefit of $5 million on a pretax charge of $87 million (or a 0.3 percent impact on our effective tax rate) related to our proportionate share of unusual or infrequent  s recorded by our equity method investees. Refer to Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Includes a tax benefit of $45 million on a pretax charge of $225 million (or a 0.3 percent impact on our effective tax rate) primarily due to an impairment of a Venezuelan trademark, a write-down of receivables from our bottling partner in Venezuela, a cash contribution to The Coca-Cola Foundation and charges associated with ongoing tax litigation. Refer to Note 1 and Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Includes a tax benefit of $259 million on pretax charges of $983 million (or a 0.9 percent impact on our effective tax rate) primarily related to the Company's productivity and reinvestment program as well as other restructuring initiatives. Refer to Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Includes tax expense of $150 million on pretax income of $77 million (or a 1.3 percent impact on our effective rate) primarily due to the gain related to the Monster Transaction, offset by charges related to the refranchising of certain territories in North America and charges associated with the early extinguishment of long-term debt. Refer to Note 2 and Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Includes tax expense of $6 million on a pretax net charge of $372 million (or a 1.5 percent impact on our effective tax rate) due to the remeasurement of the net monetary assets of our local Venezuelan subsidiary into U.S. dollars using the SICAD 2 exchange rate. Refer to Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Includes tax expense of $55 million on a pretax charge of $352 million (or a 1.9 percent impact on our effective tax rate) primarily due to an impairment of a Venezuelan trademark, a write-down on receivables from our bottling partner in Venezuela, a charge associated with certain of the Company's fixed assets, and as a result of the restructuring and transition of the Company's Russian juice operations to an existing joint venture with an unconsolidated bottling partner. Refer to Note 1 and Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Includes a tax benefit of $191 million on pretax charges of $809 million (or a 1 percent impact on our effective tax rate) primarily related to the Company's productivity and reinvestment program as well as other restructuring initiatives. Refer to Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Includes tax expense of $279 million on pretax net gains of $501 million (or a 0.9 percent impact on our effective tax rate) related to the deconsolidation of our Brazilian bottling operations upon their combination with an independent bottler and a loss due to the merger of four of the Company's Japanese bottling partners. Refer to Note 2 and Note17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Includes tax expense of $3 million (or a 0.5 percent impact on our effective tax rate) related to a charge of $149 million due to the devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar. Refer to Note 19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Includes a tax benefit of $8 million on a pretax charge of $159 million (or a 0.4 percent impact on our effective tax rate) related to our proportionate share of unusual or infrequent  s recorded by our equity method investees. Refer to Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Includes a tax benefit of $175 million on pretax charges of $877 million (or a 1.2 percent impact on our effective tax rate) primarily related to impairment charges recorded on certain of the Company's intangible assets and charges related to the Company's productivity and reinvestment program as well as other restructuring initiatives. Refer to Note17 and Note18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

As of December31, 2015, the gross amount of unrecognized tax benefits was $168 million. If the Company were to prevail on all uncertain tax positions, the net effect would be a benefit to the Company's effective tax rate of $148 million, exclusive of any benefits related to interest and penalties. The remaining $20 million, which was recorded as a deferred tax asset, primarily represents tax benefits that would be received in different tax jurisdictions in the event the Company did not prevail on all uncertain tax positions. 

The Company recognizes accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. The Company had $111 million, $113 million and $105 million in interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits accrued as of December31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Of these amounts, $8 million of expense and $8million of benefit were recognized through income tax expense in 2014 and 2013, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2015, an insignificant amount of interest and penalties were recognized through income tax expense. If the Company were to prevail on all uncertain tax positions, the reversal of this accrual would also be a benefit to the Company's effective tax rate. 

We believe our ability to generate cash flows from operating activities is one of our fundamental financial strengths. Refer to the heading "Cash Flows from Operating Activities" below. The near-term outlook for our business remains strong, and we expect to generate substantial cash flows from operations in 2016. As a result of our expected cash flows from operations, we have significant flexibility to meet our financial commitments. The Company does not typically raise capital through the issuance of stock. Instead, we use debt financing to lower our overall cost of capital and increase our return on shareowners' equity. Cash Flows from Financing Activities" below. We have a history of borrowing funds domestically and continue to have the ability to borrow funds domestically at reasonable interest rates. In addition, our domestic entities have recently borrowed and continue to have the ability to borrow funds in international markets at reasonable interest rates. Our debt financing includes the use of an extensive commercial paper program as part of our overall cash management strategy. The Company reviews its optimal mix of short-term and long-term debt regularly and may replace certain amounts of commercial paper, short-term debt and current maturities of long-term debt with new issuances of long-term debt in the future. In addition to the Company's cash balances, commercial paper program, and our ability to issue long-term debt, we also had $8,340 million in lines of credit for general corporate purposes as of December31, 2015. These backup lines of credit expire at various times from 2016 through 2019. 

We have significant operations outside the United States. Unit case volume outside the United States represented 81percent of the Company's worldwide unit case volume in 2015. We earn a substantial amount of our consolidated operating income and income before income taxes in foreign subsidiaries that either sell concentrate to our local bottling partners or, in certain instances, sell finished products directly to our customers to fulfill the demand for Company beverage products outside the United States. A significant portion of these foreign earnings is considered to be indefinitely reinvested in foreign jurisdictions where the Company has made, and will continue to make, substantial investments to support the ongoing development and growth of our international operations. Accordingly, no U.S. federal and state income taxes have been provided on the portion of our foreign earnings that is considered to be indefinitely reinvested in foreign jurisdictions. The Company's cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and marketable securities held by our foreign subsidiaries totaled $17.9billion as of December31, 2015. With the exception of an insignificant amount, for which U.S. federal and state income taxes have already been provided, we do not intend, nor do we foresee a need, to repatriate these funds. 

Net operating revenues in the United States were $20.4 billion in 2015, or 46 percent of the Company's consolidated net operating revenues. We expect existing domestic cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, marketable securities, cash flows from operations and the issuance of debt to continue to be sufficient to fund our domestic operating activities and cash commitments for investing and financing activities. In addition, we expect existing foreign cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, marketable securities and cash flows from operations to continue to be sufficient to fund our foreign operating activities and cash commitments for investing activities. 

In the future, should we require more capital to fund significant discretionary activities in the United States than is generated by our domestic operations and is available through the issuance of domestic debt, we could elect to repatriate future periods' earnings from foreign jurisdictions. This alternative could result in a higher effective tax rate in the future. While the likelihood is remote, the Company could also elect to repatriate earnings from foreign jurisdictions that have previously been considered to be indefinitely reinvested. Upon distribution of those earnings in the form of dividends or otherwise, the Company would be subject to additional U.S. income taxes (net of an adjustment for foreign tax credits) and withholding taxes payable to various foreign jurisdictions, where applicable. This alternative could also result in a higher effective tax rate in the period in which such a determination is made to repatriate prior period foreign earnings. Refer to Note14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information related to our income taxes and undistributed earnings of the Company's foreign subsidiaries. 

Based on all the aforementioned factors, the Company believes its current liquidity position is strong, and we will continue to meet all of our financial commitments for the foreseeable future. These obligations and anticipated cash outflows include, but are not limited to, regular quarterly dividends, debt maturities, capital expenditures, share repurchases and obligations included under the heading "Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Aggregate Contractual Obligations" below. 

Cash flows from operating activities decreased $87million, or 1percent, in 2015 compared to 2014. This decrease primarily reflects the impact of foreign currency fluctuations and an increase in tax payments, partially offset by the efficient management of working capital. Refer to the heading "Operations Review  Net Operating Revenues" above for additional information on the impact of foreign currency fluctuations. Refer to Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the tax payments. 

Cash flows from operating activities increased $73million, or 1percent, in 2014 compared to 2013. This increase primarily reflects the incremental pension contributions that were made in the first quarter of 2013 compared to 2014 as well as efficient management of working capital. The increase was partially offset by an unfavorable impact of currency exchange rates during 2014. Refer to the heading "Operations Review  Net Operating Revenues" above for additional information on the impact of foreign currency fluctuations. 

In 2015, purchases of investments were $15,831 million and proceeds from disposals of investments were $14,079 million. This activity resulted in a net cash outflow of $1,752 million during 2015. In 2014, purchases of investments were $17,800million and proceeds from disposals of investments were $12,986 million, resulting in a net cash outflow of $4,814million. In 2013, purchases of investments were $14,782 million and proceeds from disposals of investments were $12,791million, resulting in a net cash outflow of $1,991 million. These investments include time deposits that have maturities greater than three months but less than one year and are classified in the line   short-term investments in our consolidated balance sheets. The purchases during the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 include our investments in Keurig Green Mountain, Inc. ("Keurig") of $830million and $1,567 million, respectively, partially offset by the net purchases and proceeds of our short-term investments that were made as part of the Company's overall cash management strategy. Refer to Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our investment in Keurig. In December 2015, Keurig announced that it had entered into an agreement with JAB Holding Company ("JAB") under which a JAB-led investor group will acquire Keurig for $92 per share in cash. The transaction is expected to close in the first quarter of 2016, subject to customary closing conditions, including receipt of regulatory approvals. Upon the sale of its shares, the Company will receive proceeds of approximately $2,380 million. 

In 2013, our Company's acquisitions of businesses, equity method investments and nonmarketable securities totaled $353million. These activities primarily included our acquisition of the majority of the remaining outstanding shares of innocent and a majority interest in bottling operations in Myanmar. 

In 2015, proceeds from disposals of businesses, equity method investments and nonmarketable securities were $565 million, which included cash received as a result of a Brazilian bottling entity's majority interest owners exercising their option to acquire from us an additional equity interest. The proceeds from disposals of businesses, equity method investments and nonmarketable securities during 2015 also included the proceeds from the sale of the Company's distribution assets, certain working capital  s, and the grant of exclusive rights to distribute certain beverage brands not owned by the Company, but distributed by CCR, to certain unconsolidated bottling partners as part of the North America refranchising. Refer to Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

In 2014, proceeds from disposals of businesses, equity method investments and nonmarketable securities were $148 million, which represented the proceeds from the sale of the Company's distribution assets, certain working capital  s, and the grant of exclusive rights to distribute certain beverage brands not owned by the Company, but distributed by CCR, to certain unconsolidated bottling partners as part of the North America refranchising. Refer to Note2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

In 2013, proceeds from disposals of businesses, equity method investments and nonmarketable securities were $872 million. These proceeds primarily related to the sale of a majority ownership interest in our previously consolidated Philippine bottling operations, and separately, the deconsolidation of our Brazilian bottling operations. Refer to Note2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

In 2015, cash used in other investing activities included a $530 million payment related to the Monster Transaction, partially offset by the cash flow impact of the Company's derivative contracts designated as net investment hedges. Refer to Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Monster Transaction and Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Company's derivative contracts designated as net investment hedges. 

In 2013, other investing activities were primarily related to the acquisition of trademarks and certain other intangible assets. None of these investments was individually significant. 

Our Company maintains debt levels we consider prudent based on our cash flows, interest coverage ratio and percentage of debt to capital. We use debt financing to lower our overall cost of capital, which increases our return on shareowners' equity. This exposes us to adverse changes in interest rates. Our interest expense may also be affected by our credit ratings. 

In February 2016, Standard & Poor's downgraded the Company's long-term debt rating to AA- with a stable outlook. The Company does not believe that this downgrade will have a material adverse effect on our cost of borrowing. 

We monitor our financial ratios and, as indicated above, the rating agencies consider these ratios in assessing our credit ratings. Each rating agency employs a different aggregation methodology and has different thresholds for the various financial ratios. These thresholds are not necessarily permanent, nor are they always fully disclosed to our Company. 

Our global presence and strong capital position give us access to key financial markets around the world, enabling us to raise funds at a low effective cost. This posture, coupled with active management of our mix of short-term and long-term debt and our mix of fixed-rate and variable-rate debt, results in a lower overall cost of borrowing. Our debt management policies, in conjunction with our share repurchase program and investment activity, can result in current liabilities exceeding current assets. 

Issuances and payments of debt included both short-term and long-term financing activities. In 2015, the Company had issuances of debt of $40,434 million, which included net issuances of $25,923 million of commercial paper and short-term debt with maturities greater than 90 days. The Company's total issuances of debt also included long-term debt issuances of $14,511million, net of related discounts, premiums and issuance costs. 

During 2015, the Company made payments of $37,738 million, which included net payments of $208 million of commercial paper and short-term debt with maturities of 90 days or less, $31,711 million of payments of commercial paper and short-term debt with maturities greater than 90 days and long-term debt payments of $5,819 million. The long-term debt payments included the extinguishment of $2,039million of long-term debt prior to maturity, which resulted in associated charges of $320million that were recorded in the line   interest expense in our consolidated statement of income. These charges included the difference between the reacquisition price and the net carrying amount of the debt extinguished, including the impact of the related fair value hedging relationship. 

In 2014, the Company had issuances of debt of $41,674 million, which included net issuances of $317 million of commercial paper and short-term debt with maturities of 90 days or less and $37,799 million of issuances of commercial paper and short-term debt with maturities greater than 90 days. The Company's total issuances of debt also included long-term debt issuances of $3,558 million, net of related discounts and issuance costs. 

In 2013, the Company had issuances of debt of $43,425 million, which included $35,944 million of issuances of commercial paper and short-term debt with maturities greater than 90 days. The Company's total issuances of debt also included long-term debt issuances of $7,481 million, net of related discounts and issuance costs. 

During 2013, the Company made payments of debt of $38,714 million, which included $70 million of net payments of commercial paper and short-term debt with maturities of 90 days or less, $35,199 million of payments of commercial paper and short-term debt with maturities greater than 90 days and long-term debt payments of $3,445 million. The long-term debt payments included the extinguishment of $2,154 million of long-term debt prior to maturity, which resulted in associated charges of $53million, including hedge accounting adjustments reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income, in the line   interest expense in our consolidated statement of income during the year ended December 31, 2013. 

The carrying value of the Company's long-term debt included fair value adjustments related to the debt assumed from Old CCE of $411 million and $464 million as of December31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. These fair value adjustments are being amortized over the number of years remaining until the underlying debt matures. As of December31, 2015, the weighted-average maturity of the assumed debt to which these fair value adjustments relate was approximately 20years. The amortization of these fair value adjustments will be a reduction of interest expense in future periods, which will typically result in our interest expense being less than the actual interest paid to service the debt. Total interest paid was $515 million, $498million and $498 million in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Refer to Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to the Company's long-term debt balances. 

On July 20, 2006, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized a share repurchase program of up to 600 million shares of the Company's common stock. The program took effect on October 31, 2006. Although there were approximately 43 million shares that were yet to be purchased under this share repurchase program, the Board of Directors authorized a new share repurchase program of up to 500 million shares of the Company's common stock on October 18, 2012 ("2012 Plan"). The 2012 Plan allowed the Company to continue repurchasing shares following the completion of the prior program. 

Since the inception of our initial share repurchase program in 1984 through our current program as of December31, 2015, we have purchased 3.3billion shares of our Company's common stock at an average price per share of $15.36. In addition to shares repurchased under the share repurchase program authorized by our Board of Directors, the Company's treasury stock activity also includes shares surrendered to the Company to pay the exercise price and/or to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with so-called stock swap exercises of employee stock options and/or the vesting of restricted stock issued to employees. In 2015, we repurchased $3.5 billion of our stock. However, due to the timing of settlements, the total amount of treasury stock purchases that settled during 2015 was $3.6 billion, which includes treasury stock that was purchased and settled during 2015 as well as treasury stock purchased in December 2014 that settled in early 2015. The net impact of the Company's treasury stock issuance and purchase activities in 2015 resulted in a net cash outflow of $2.3 billion. We currently expect to repurchase $2.0billion to $2.5billion of our stock during 2016, net of proceeds from the issuance of treasury stock due to the exercise of employee stock options. 

At its February 2016 meeting, our Board of Directors increased our quarterly dividend by 6percent, raising it to $0.35 per share, equivalent to a full year dividend of $1.40 per share in 2016. This is our 54th consecutive annual increase. Our annual common stock dividend was $1.32 per share, $1.22 per share and $1.12 per share in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The 2015 dividend represented an 8percent increase from 2014, and the 2014 dividend represented a 9percent increase from 2013. 

As of December31, 2015, we were contingently liable for guarantees of indebtedness owed by third parties of $572 million, of which $263 million was related to VIEs. These guarantees are primarily related to third-party customers, bottlers, vendors and container manufacturing operations and have arisen through the normal course of business. These guarantees have various terms, and none of these guarantees was individually significant. The amount represents the maximum potential future payments that we could be required to make under the guarantees; however, we do not consider it probable that we will be required to satisfy these guarantees. 

Company under these guarantees is not probable. As of December31, 2015, we were not directly liable for the debt of any unconsolidated entity, and we did not have any retained or contingent interest in assets as defined above. 

Our Company recognizes all derivatives as either assets or liabilities at fair value in our consolidated balance sheets. Refer to Note5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

As of December31, 2015, the Company had $8,340 million in lines of credit for general corporate purposes. These backup lines of credit expire at various times from 2016 through 2019. There were no borrowings under these backup lines of credit during 2015. These credit facilities are subject to normal banking terms and conditions. Some of the financial arrangements require compensating balances, none of which are presently significant to our Company. 

Refer to Note10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding short-term loans and notes payable. Upon payment of outstanding commercial paper, we typically issue new commercial paper. Lines of credit and other short-term borrowings are expected to fluctuate depending upon current liquidity needs, especially at international subsidiaries. 

Refer to Note10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding long-term debt. We will consider several alternatives to settle this long-term debt, including the use of cash flows from operating activities, issuance of commercial paper or issuance of other long-term debt. 

We calculated estimated interest payments for our long-term debt based on the applicable rates and payment dates. For our variable rate debt, we have assumed the December 31, 2015 rate for all years presented. We typically expect to settle such interest payments with cash flows from operating activities and/or short-term borrowings. 

Refer to Note14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding income taxes. As of December31, 2015, the noncurrent portion of our income tax liability, including accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits, was $267million, which was not included in the total above. At this time, the settlement period for the noncurrent portion of our income tax liability cannot be determined. In addition, any payments related to unrecognized tax benefits would be partially offset by reductions in payments in other jurisdictions. 

Purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including long-term contractual obligations, open purchase orders, accounts payable and certain accrued liabilities. We expect to fund these obligations with cash flows from operating activities. 

The total accrued benefit liability for pension and other postretirement benefit plans recognized as of December31, 2015, was $2,619million. Refer to Note13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. This amount is impacted by, among other  s, pension expense, funding levels, plan amendments, changes in plan demographics and assumptions, and the investment return on plan assets. Because the accrued liability does not represent expected liquidity needs, we did not include this amount in the contractual obligations table. 

We generally expect to fund all future pension contributions with cash flows from operating activities. Our international pension plans are generally funded in accordance with local laws and income tax regulations. 

As of December31, 2015, the projected benefit obligation of the U.S. qualified pension plans was $6,405million, and the fair value of plan assets was $5,628million. The projected benefit obligation of all pension plans other than the U.S. qualified pension plans was $2,754million, and the fair value of all other pension plan assets was $2,061million. The majority of this underfunding is attributable to an international pension plan for certain non-U.S. employees that is unfunded due to tax law restrictions, as well as certain unfunded U.S. nonqualified pension plans. These U.S. nonqualified pension plans provide, for certain associates, benefits that are not permitted to be funded through a qualified plan because of limits imposed by the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. The expected benefit payments for these unfunded pension plans are not included in the table above. However, we anticipate annual benefit payments for these unfunded pension plans to be $72million in 2016 and remain near that level through 2031, decreasing annually thereafter. Refer to Note13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

The Company expects to contribute an additional $512 million to our global pension plans, the majority of which will be allocated to our U.S. plans. Refer to Note13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We did not include our estimated contributions to our various plans in the table above. 

In general, we are self-insured for large portions of many different types of claims; however, we do use commercial insurance above our self-insured retentions to reduce the Company's risk of catastrophic loss. Our reserves for the Company's self-insured losses are estimated through actuarial procedures of the insurance industry and by using industry assumptions, adjusted for our specific expectations based on our claim history. As of December31, 2015, our self-insurance reserves totaled $560 million. Refer to Note11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We did not include estimated payments related to our self-insurance reserves in the table above. 

Deferred income tax liabilities as of December31, 2015 were $5,434 million. Refer to Note14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. This amount is not included in the total contractual obligations table because we believe that presentation would not be meaningful. Deferred income tax liabilities are calculated based on temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their respective book bases, which will result in taxable amounts in future years when the liabilities are settled at their reported financial statement amounts. The results of these calculations do not have a direct connection with the amount of cash taxes to be paid in any future periods. As a result, scheduling deferred income tax liabilities as payments due by period could be misleading, because this scheduling would not relate to liquidity needs. 

Our international operations are subject to certain opportunities and risks, including currency fluctuations and governmental actions. We closely monitor our operations in each country and seek to adopt appropriate strategies that are responsive to changing economic and political environments, and to fluctuations in foreign currencies. 

In 2015, we used 72 functional currencies. Due to the geographic diversity of our operations, weakness in some of these currencies might be offset by strength in others. 

These percentages do not include the effects of our hedging activities and, therefore, do not reflect the actual impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on our operating results. Our foreign currency management program is designed to mitigate, over time, a portion of the impact of exchange rate changes on our net income and earnings per share. 

The total currency impacts on net operating revenues, including the effect of our hedging activities, were decreases of 7 percent and 2percent in 2015 and 2014, respectively. The total currency impacts on income before income taxes, including the effect of our hedging activities, were decreases of 6 percent in 2015 and 9 percent in 2014. 

Foreign currency exchange gains and losses are primarily the result of the remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities from certain currencies into functional currencies. The effects of the remeasurement of these assets and liabilities are partially offset by the impact of our economic hedging program for certain exposures on our consolidated balance sheets. Refer to Note5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Foreign currency exchange gains and losses are included as a component of other income (loss) net in our consolidated financial statements. Refer to the heading "Operations Review Other Income (Loss) Net" above. The Company recorded foreign currency exchange gains of $149million in 2015 and foreign currency losses of $569 million and $162million in 2014 and 2013, respectively. 

A hyperinflationary economy is one that has cumulative inflation of 100 percent or more over a three-year period. In accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, local subsidiaries in hyperinflationary economies are required to use the U.S. dollar as their functional currency and remeasure the monetary assets and liabilities not denominated in U.S. dollars using the rate applicable to conversion of a currency for purposes of dividend remittances. All exchange gains and losses resulting from remeasurement are recognized currently in income. 

Venezuela has been designated as a hyperinflationary economy. In February 2013, the Venezuelan government devalued its currency to an official rate of exchange ("official rate") of 6.3bolivars per U.S. dollar. At that time, the Company remeasured the net monetary assets of our Venezuelan subsidiary at the official rate. As a result of the devaluation, we recognized a loss of $140 million from remeasurement in the line   other income (loss)  net in our consolidated statement of income. 

Beginning in the first quarter of 2014, the Venezuelan government recognized three legal exchange rates to convert bolivars to the U.S. dollar: (1) the official rate of 6.3bolivars per U.S. dollar; (2) SICAD 1, which was available to foreign investments and designated industry sectors to exchange a limited volume of bolivars for U.S. dollars using a bid rate established at weekly auctions; and (3) SICAD 2, which applied to transactions that did not qualify for either the official rate or SICAD 1. As of March 28, 2014, the three legal exchange rates were 6.3 (official rate), 10.8 (SICAD 1) and 50.9 (SICAD 2). We determined that the SICAD1 rate was the most appropriate rate to use for remeasurement given our circumstances and estimates of the applicable rate at which future transactions could be settled, including the payment of dividends. Therefore, as of March 28, 2014, we remeasured the net monetary assets of our Venezuelan subsidiary using an exchange rate of 10.8 bolivars per U.S. dollar, resulting in a charge of $226 million recorded in the line   other income (loss)  net in our consolidated statement of income. 

In December 2014, due to the continued lack of liquidity and increasing economic uncertainty, the Company reevaluated the rate that should be used to remeasure the monetary assets and liabilities of our Venezuelan subsidiary. As of December 31, 2014, we determined that the SICAD 2 rate of 50 bolivars per U.S. dollar was the most appropriate legally available rate and remeasured the net monetary assets of our Venezuelan subsidiary, resulting in a charge of $146 million recorded in the line   other income (loss)  net in our consolidated statement of income. 

In February 2015, the Venezuelan government merged SICAD 1 and SICAD 2 into a single mechanism called SICAD and introduced a new open market exchange rate system, SIMADI. As a result, management determined that the SIMADI rate was the most appropriate legally available rate and remeasured the net monetary assets of our Venezuelan subsidiary, resulting in a charge of $27million recorded in the line   other income (loss)  net in our consolidated statement of income. 

In addition to the foreign currency exchange exposure related to our Venezuelan subsidiary's net monetary assets, we also sell concentrate to our bottling partner in Venezuela from outside the country. These sales are denominated in U.S. dollars. During the years ended December31, 2015 and December31, 2014, as a result of the continued lack of liquidity and our revised assessment of the U.S. dollar value we expect to realize upon the conversion of Venezuelan bolivars into U.S. dollars by our bottling partner to pay our concentrate sales receivables, we recorded write-downs of $56million and $296 million, respectively, recorded in the line   other operating charges in our consolidated statements of income. 

We also have certain U.S. dollar denominated intangible assets associated with products sold in Venezuela. As a result of the Company's revised expectations regarding the convertibility of the local currency, we recognized impairment charges of $55million and $18million, respectively, during the years ended December31, 2015 and December31, 2014. These charges were recorded in the line   other operating charges in our consolidated statements of income. 

During the year ended December31, 2015, the Company continued to use the SIMADI rate to remeasure the net monetary assets of our Venezuelan subsidiary. As of December31, 2015, the combined value of the net monetary assets of our Venezuelan subsidiary, the receivables from our bottling partner in Venezuela and the intangible assets associated with products sold in Venezuela was $100million. Included in this combined value is $15 million of cash and cash equivalents. Despite the additional currency conversion mechanisms, the Company's ability to pay dividends from Venezuela is still restricted due to the low volume of U.S. dollars available for conversion. 

In February 2016, the Venezuelan government devalued its currency and changed its official and most preferential exchange rate, which will continue to be used for purchases of certain essential goods, to 10 bolivars per U.S. dollar from 6.3. The Venezuelan government announced it will reduce its three-tier system of exchange rates to two tiers by eliminating the SICAD rate. Additionally, the government announced that the SIMADI rate will be allowed to float freely beginning at a rate of 203 bolivars per U.S. dollar. As a result, the Company expects to continue to record losses on foreign currency exchange, may incur additional write-downs of receivables or impairment charges and will continue to record our proportionate share of any charges recorded by our equity method investee that has operations in Venezuela. 

Inflation affects the way we operate in many markets around the world. In general, we believe that, over time, we will be able to increase prices to counteract the majority of the inflationary effects of increasing costs and to generate sufficient cash flows to maintain our productive capability. 

The increases (decreases) in the individual line  s in the table above are primarily attributable to North America refranchising and the Company's German bottling operations being classified as held for sale. Refer to Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

Equity method investments increased primarily due to our investment in Monster and a bottling partner in Indonesia, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Refer to Note2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

Trademarks with indefinite lives decreased primarily due to the sale of our energy brands and the discontinuation of the energy products in the glacau portfolio as a result of the Monster Transaction. Refer to Note2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

Long-term debt increased primarily due to the issuances of Swiss franc-denominated, euro-denominated and U.S. dollar-denominated debt, partially offset by the early extinguishment of debt during the year ended December 31, 2015. Refer to Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.The following Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A") is intended to help the reader understand The Coca-Cola Company, our operations and our present business environment. MD&A is provided as a supplement to and should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes thereto contained in " 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this report. 

The Coca-Cola Company is the world's largest beverage company. We own or license and market more than 500 nonalcoholic beverage brands, primarily sparkling beverages but also a variety of still beverages such as waters, enhanced waters, juices and juice drinks, ready-to-drink teas and coffees, and energy and sports drinks. Coca-Cola, Diet Coke, Fanta and Sprite. Finished beverage products bearing our trademarks, sold in the United States since 1886, are now sold in more than 200 countries. 

We make our branded beverage products available to consumers throughout the world through our network of Company-owned or -controlled bottling and distribution operations, bottling partners, distributors, wholesalers and retailers the world's largest beverage distribution system. Beverages bearing trademarks owned by or licensed to us account for more than 1.9 billion of the approximately 58 billion servings of all beverages consumed worldwide every day. 

We believe our success depends on our ability to connect with consumers by providing them with a wide variety of choices to meet their desires, needs and lifestyle choices. Our success further depends on the ability of our people to execute effectively, every day. 

In our concentrate operations, we typically generate net operating revenues by selling concentrates and syrups to authorized bottling and canning operations (to which we typically refer as our "bottlers" or our "bottling partners"). Our bottling partners either combine the concentrates with sweeteners (depending on the product), still water and/or sparkling water, or combine the syrups with sparkling water to produce finished beverages. The finished beverages are packaged in authorized containers  such as cans and refillable and nonrefillable glass and plastic bottles bearing our trademarks or trademarks licensed to us and are then sold to retailers directly or, in some cases, through wholesalers or other bottlers. Outside the United States, we also sell concentrates for fountain beverages to our bottling partners who are typically authorized to manufacture fountain syrups, which they sell to fountain retailers such as restaurants and convenience stores which use the fountain syrups to produce beverages for immediate consumption, or to authorized fountain wholesalers who in turn sell and distribute the fountain syrups to fountain retailers. 

Our finished product operations consist primarily of Company-owned or -controlled bottling, sales and distribution operations, including CCR. Until December 31, 2015, our Company-owned or -controlled bottling, sales and distribution operations, other than CCR, were included in our Bottling Investments operating segment; and CCR was included in our North America operating segment. Effective January 1, 2016, we transferred CCR's bottling and associated supply chain operations in the United States and Canada from our North America segment to our Bottling Investments segment. Our finished product operations generate net operating revenues by selling sparkling beverages and a variety of still beverages, such as juices and juice drinks, energy and sports drinks, ready-to-drink teas and coffees, and certain water products, to retailers or to distributors, wholesalers and bottling partners who distribute them to retailers. In addition, in the United States, we manufacture fountain syrups and sell them to fountain retailers such as restaurants and convenience stores who use the fountain syrups to produce beverages for immediate consumption or to authorized fountain wholesalers or bottling partners who resell the fountain syrups to fountain retailers. In the United States, we authorize wholesalers to resell our fountain syrups through nonexclusive appointments that neither restrict us in setting the prices at which we sell fountain syrups to the wholesalers nor restrict the territories in which the wholesalers may resell in the United States. 

Includes concentrates sold by the Company to authorized bottling partners for the manufacture of fountain syrups. The bottlers then typically sell the fountain syrups to wholesalers or directly to fountain retailers. 

Includes unit case volume related to concentrates sold by the Company to authorized bottling partners for the manufacture of fountain syrups. The bottlers then typically sell the fountain syrups to wholesalers or directly to fountain retailers. 

We operate in the highly competitive nonalcoholic beverage segment of the commercial beverage industry. We face strong competition from numerous other general and specialty beverage companies. We, along with other beverage companies, are affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, cost to manufacture and distribute products, consumer spending, economic conditions, availability and quality of water, consumer preferences, inflation, political climate, local and national laws and regulations, foreign currency fluctuations, fuel prices and weather patterns. 

Marketing investments are designed to enhance consumer awareness of, and increase consumer preference for, our brands. Successful marketing investments produce long-term growth in unit case volume, per capita consumption and our share of worldwide nonalcoholic beverage sales. Through our relationships with our bottling partners and those who sell our products in the marketplace, we create and implement integrated marketing programs, both globally and locally, that are designed to heighten consumer awareness of and product appeal for our brands. In developing a strategy for a Company brand, we conduct product and packaging research, establish brand positioning, develop precise consumer communications and solicit consumer feedback. Our integrated marketing activities include, but are not limited to, advertising, point-of-sale merchandising and sales promotions. 

We are focusing on marketing strategies to drive volume growth in emerging markets, increasing our brand value in developing markets and growing profit in our developed markets. In emerging markets, we are investing in infrastructure programs that drive volume through increased access to consumers. In developing markets, where consumer access has largely been established, our focus is on differentiating our brands. In our developed markets, we continue to invest in brands and infrastructure programs but generally at a slower rate than gross profit growth. 

The Coca-Cola system has millions of customers around the world who sell or serve our products directly to consumers. We focus on enhancing value for our customers and providing solutions to grow their beverage businesses. Our approach includes understanding each customer's business and needs  whether that customer is a sophisticated retailer in a developed market or a kiosk owner in an emerging market. We focus on ensuring that our customers have the right product and package offerings and the right promotional tools to deliver enhanced value to themselves and the Company. We are constantly looking to build new beverage consumption occasions in our customers' outlets through unique and innovative consumer experiences, product availability and delivery systems, and beverage merchandising and displays. We participate in joint brand-building initiatives with our customers in order to drive consumer preference for our brands. Through our commercial leadership initiatives, we embed ourselves further into our retail customers' businesses while developing strategies for better execution at the point of sale. 

We must continue to improve our franchise leadership capabilities to give our Company and our bottling partners the ability to grow together through shared values, aligned incentives and a sense of urgency and flexibility that supports consumers' always changing needs and tastes. The financial health and success of our bottling partners are critical components of the Company's success. We work with our bottling partners to identify processes that enable us to quickly achieve scale and efficiencies, and we share best practices throughout the bottling system. With our bottling partners, we work to produce differentiated beverages and packages that are appropriate for the right channels and consumers. We also design business models for sparkling and still beverages in specific markets to ensure that we appropriately share the value created by these beverages with our bottling partners. We will continue to build a supply chain network that leverages the size and scale of the Coca-Cola system to gain a competitive advantage. 

Most of our Company beverage products are manufactured, sold and distributed by independent bottling partners. However, from time to time we acquire or take control of bottling operations, often in underperforming markets where we believe we can use our resources and expertise to improve performance. Owning such a controlling interest enables us to compensate for limited local resources; help focus the bottler's sales and marketing programs; assist in the development of the bottler's business and information systems; and establish an appropriate capital structure for the bottler. 

Our Company has a long history of providing world-class customer service, demonstrating leadership in the marketplace and leveraging the talent of our global workforce. In addition, we have an experienced bottler management team. All of these factors are critical to build upon as we manage our bottling and distribution operations. 

The Company has a deep commitment to continuously improving our business. This includes our efforts to develop innovative packaging and merchandising solutions which help drive demand for our beverages and meet the evolving preferences of our consumers. As we further transform the way we go to market, the Company continues to seek out ways to be more efficient. 

Being global provides unique opportunities for our Company. Challenges and risks accompany those opportunities. Our management has identified certain challenges and risks that demand the attention of the nonalcoholic beverage segment of the commercial beverage industry and our Company. Of these, six key challenges and risks are discussed below. 

The rates of obesity affecting communities, cultures and countries worldwide continue to be too high. There is growing concern among consumers, public health professionals and government agencies about the health problems associated with obesity, which results from poor diets that are too high in calories combined with inactive lifestyles. This concern represents a significant challenge to our industry. We understand and recognize that obesity is a complex public health challenge and are committed to being a part of the solution. 

We recognize the uniqueness of consumers' lifestyles and dietary choices. We are working to pair commercial actions with community engagement to bring together business, government and civil society to help pursue solutions that address obesity. 

The heritage of our Company is to lead, and innovation is critical for leadership. As such, we are resolute in continuing to innovate and are committed to partnering to find winning solutions in the area of noncaloric sweeteners. This includes working to reduce caloric sweeteners, and therefore the calories, in our beverages. We want to be a more helpful and credible partner in the fight against obesity. Across the Coca-Cola system, we are mobilizing our assets in marketing and in community outreach to increase awareness and spur action. 

Water quality and quantity is an issue that increasingly requires our Company's attention and collaboration with other companies, suppliers, governments, nongovernmental organizations and communities where we operate. Water is a main ingredient in substantially all of our products, is vital to the production of the agricultural ingredients on which our business relies and is needed in our manufacturing process. It also is critical to the prosperity of the communities we serve. Water is a limited natural resource facing unprecedented challenges from overexploitation, flourishing food demand, increasing pollution, poor management and the effects of climate change. 

Our Company has a robust water stewardship and management program and continues to work to improve water use efficiency, treat wastewater prior to discharge and achieve our goal of replenishing the water that we and our bottling partners source and use in our finished products. We regularly assess the specific water-related risks that we and many of our bottling partners face and have implemented a formal water risk management program. We are actively collaborating with other companies, governments, nongovernmental organizations and communities to advocate for needed water policy reforms and action to protect water availability and quality around the world. We are working with our global partners to develop and implement  sustainability-related water projects that address local needs. We are encouraging improved water efficiency and conservation efforts throughout our system. Through these integrated programs, we believe that our Company is in an excellent position to leverage the water-related knowledge we have developed in the communities we serve  through source water availability assessments and planning, water resource management, water treatment, wastewater treatment systems and models for working with communities and partners in addressing water and sanitation needs. As demand for water continues to increase around the world, we expect commitment and continued action on our part will be crucial to the successful long-term stewardship of this critical natural resource. 

We are impacted by shifting consumer demographics and needs, on-the-go lifestyles, aging populations and consumers who are empowered with more information than ever. As a consequence of these changes, consumers want more choices. We are committed to meeting their needs and to generating new growth through our portfolio of more than 500 brands and more than 3,800 beverage products, including more than 1,100 low- and no-calorie products, new product offerings, innovative packaging and ingredient education efforts. We are also committed to continuing to expand the variety of choices we provide to consumers to meet their ever-changing needs, desires and lifestyles. 

Our Company is facing strong competition from some well-established global companies and many local participants. We must continue to strengthen our capabilities in marketing and innovation in order to maintain our brand loyalty and market share while we strategically expand into other profitable categories of the nonalcoholic beverage segment of the commercial beverage industry. 

As the world's largest beverage company, we strive to meet the highest of standards in both product safety and product quality. We are aware that some consumers have concerns and negative viewpoints regarding certain ingredients used in our products. Our system works every day to share safe and refreshing beverages with the world. We have rigorous product and ingredient safety and quality standards designed to ensure safety and quality in each of our products, and we drive innovation that provides new beverage options to meet consumers' evolving needs and preferences. Across theCoca-Colasystem, we take great care in an effort to ensure that every one of our beverages meets the highest standards for safety and quality. 

We work to ensure consistent safety and quality through strong governance and compliance with applicable regulations and standards. We stay current with new regulations, industry best practices and marketplace conditions and engage with standard-setting and industry organizations. Additionally, we manufacture and distribute our products according to strict policies, requirements and specifications set forth in an integrated quality management program that continually measures all operations within the Coca-Cola system against the same stringent standards. Our quality management system also identifies and mitigates risks and drives improvement. In our quality laboratories, we stringently measure the quality attributes of ingredients as well as samples of finished products collected from the marketplace. 

We perform due diligence to ensure that product and ingredient safety and quality standards are maintained in the more than 200 countries where our products are sold. We consistently reassess the relevance of our requirements and standards and continually work to improve and refine them across our entire supply chain. 

Increased demand for commodities and decreased agricultural productivity in certain regions of the world as a result of changing weather patterns may limit the availability or increase the cost of key agricultural commodities, such as sugarcane, corn, sugar beets, citrus, coffee and tea, which are important sources of ingredients for our products and could impact the food security of communities around the world. We are dedicated to implementing our sustainable sourcing commitment, which is founded on principles that protect the environment, uphold workplace rights and help build more sustainable communities. To support this commitment, our programs focus on economic opportunity, with an emphasis on female farmers, and environmental sustainability designed to help address these agricultural challenges. Through joint efforts with farmers, communities, bottlers, suppliers and key partners, as well as our increased and continued investment in sustainable agriculture, we can together help make a positive strategic impact on food security. 

Management has discussed the development, selection and disclosure of critical accounting policies and estimates with the Audit Committee of the Company's Board of Directors. While our estimates and assumptions are based on our knowledge of current events and actions we may undertake in the future, actual results may ultimately differ from these estimates and assumptions. For a discussion of the Company's significant accounting policies, refer to Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Our Company consolidates all entities that we control by ownership of a majority voting interest as well as variable interest entities for which our Company is the primary beneficiary. Generally, we consolidate only business enterprises that we control by ownership of a majority voting interest. However, there are situations in which consolidation is required even though the usual condition of consolidation (ownership of a majority voting interest) does not apply. Generally, this occurs when an entity holds an interest in another business enterprise that was achieved through arrangements that do not involve voting interests, which results in a disproportionate relationship between such entity's voting interests in, and its exposure to the economic risks and potential rewards of, the other business enterprise. This disproportionate relationship results in what is known as a variable interest, and the entity in which we have the variable interest is referred to as a "VIE." An enterprise must consolidate a VIE if it is determined to be the primary beneficiary of the VIE. The primary beneficiary has both ( 1 )the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the entity's economic performance, and ( 2 )the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits from the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE. 

Our Company holds interests in certain VIEs, primarily bottling and container manufacturing operations, for which we were not determined to be the primary beneficiary. Our variable interests in these VIEs primarily relate to profit guarantees or subordinated financial support. Refer to Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Although these financial arrangements resulted in our holding variable interests in these entities, they did not empower us to direct the activities of the VIEs that most significantly impact the VIEs' economic performance. Our Company's investments, plus any loans and guarantees, related to these VIEs totaled $2,687 million and $2,274 million as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, representing our maximum exposures to loss. The Company's investments, plus any loans and guarantees, related to these VIEs were not significant to the Company's consolidated financial statements. 

In addition, our Company holds interests in certain VIEs, primarily bottling and container manufacturing operations, for which we were determined to be the primary beneficiary. As a result, we have consolidated these entities. Our Company's investments, plus any loans and guarantees, related to these VIEs totaled $221 million and $266 million as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, representing our maximum exposures to loss. The assets and liabilities of VIEs for which we are the primary beneficiary were not significant to the Company's consolidated financial statements. 

Our Company faces many uncertainties and risks related to various economic, political and regulatory environments in the countries in which we operate, particularly in developing or emerging markets. Refer to the heading "Our Business Challenges and Risks" above and " 1 A. Risk Factors" in PartI of this report. As a result, management must make numerous assumptions which involve a significant amount of judgment when completing recoverability and impairment tests of current and noncurrent assets in various regions around the world. 

We perform recoverability and impairment tests of current and noncurrent assets in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. For certain assets, recoverability and/or impairment tests are required only when conditions exist that indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. For other assets, impairment tests are required at least annually, or more frequently, if events or circumstances indicate that an asset may be impaired. 

Our equity method investees also perform such recoverability and/or impairment tests. If an impairment charge is recorded by one of our equity method investees, the Company records its proportionate share of such charge as a reduction of equity income (loss) net in our consolidated statements of income. However, the actual amount we record with respect to our proportionate share of such charges may be impacted by  s such as basis differences, deferred taxes and deferred gains. 

Management's assessments of the recoverability and impairment tests of noncurrent assets involve critical accounting estimates. These estimates require significant management judgment, include inherent uncertainties and are often interdependent; therefore, they do not change in isolation. Factors that management must estimate include, among others, the economic life of the asset, sales volume, pricing, cost of raw materials, delivery costs, inflation, cost of capital, marketing spending, foreign currency exchange rates, tax rates, capital spending and proceeds from the sale of assets. These factors are even more difficult to predict when global financial markets are highly volatile. The estimates we use when assessing the recoverability of current and noncurrent assets are consistent with those we use in our internal planning. When performing impairment tests, we estimate the fair values of the assets using management's best assumptions, which we believe would be consistent with what a hypothetical marketplace participant would use. Estimates and assumptions used in these tests are evaluated and updated as appropriate. The variability of these factors depends on a number of conditions, including uncertainty about future events, and thus our accounting estimates may change from period to period. If other assumptions and estimates had been used when these tests were performed, impairment charges could have resulted. As mentioned above, these factors do not change in isolation and, therefore, we do not believe it is practicable or meaningful to present the impact of changing a single factor. Furthermore, if management uses different assumptions or if different conditions occur in future periods, future impairment charges could result. Refer to the heading "Operations Review" below for additional information related to our present business environment. Certain factors discussed above are impacted by our current business environment and are discussed throughout this report, as appropriate. 

The carrying values of our investments in equity securities are determined using the equity method, the cost method or the fair value method. We account for investments in companies that we do not control or account for under the equity method either at fair value or under the cost method, as applicable. Investments in equity securities, other than investments accounted for under the equity method, are carried at fair value if the fair value of the security is readily determinable. Equity investments carried at fair value are classified as either trading or available-for-sale securities. Realized and unrealized gains and losses on trading securities and realized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities are included in net income. Unrealized gains and losses, net of deferred taxes, on available-for-sale securities are included in our consolidated balance sheets as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) ("AOCI"), except for the change in fair value attributable to the currency risk being hedged, if applicable, which is included in net income. Trading securities are reported as either marketable securities or other assets in our consolidated balance sheets. Securities classified as available-for-sale are reported as either marketable securities or other investments in our consolidated balance sheets, depending on the length of time we intend to hold the investment. Investments in equity securities that do not qualify for fair value accounting or equity method accounting are accounted for under the cost method. In accordance with the cost method, our initial investment is recorded at cost and we record dividend income when applicable dividends are declared. Cost method investments are reported as other investments in our consolidated balance sheets. 

Our investments in debt securities are carried at either amortized cost or fair value. Investments in debt securities that the Company has the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity are carried at amortized cost and classified as held-to-maturity. Investments in debt securities that are not classified as held-to-maturity are carried at fair value and classified as either trading or available-for-sale. 

Investments classified as trading securities are not assessed for impairment, since they are carried at fair value with the change in fair value included in net income. We review our investments in equity and debt securities that are accounted for using the equity method or cost method or that are classified as available-for-sale or held-to-maturity each reporting period to determine whether a significant event or change in circumstances has occurred that may have an adverse effect on the fair value of each investment. When such events or changes occur, we evaluate the fair value compared to our cost basis in the investment. We also perform this evaluation every reporting period for each investment for which our cost basis has exceeded the fair value. The fair values of most of our Company's investments in publicly traded companies are often readily available based on quoted market prices. For investments in nonpublicly traded companies, management's assessment of fair value is based on valuation methodologies including discounted cash flows, estimates of sales proceeds and appraisals, as appropriate. We consider the assumptions that we believe hypothetical marketplace participants would use in evaluating estimated future cash flows when employing the discounted cash flow or estimates of sales proceeds valuation methodologies. The ability to accurately predict future cash flows, especially in emerging and developing markets, may impact the determination of fair value. 

In the event the fair value of an investment declines below our cost basis, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. If management determines the decline is other than temporary, an impairment charge is recorded. Management's assessment as to the nature of a decline in fair value is based on, among other things, the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been less than our cost basis, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, and our intent and ability to retain the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value. 

In 2013, four of the Company's Japanese bottling partners merged as Coca-Cola East Japan Bottling Company, Ltd., now known as Coca-Cola East Japan Co., Ltd. ("CCEJ"), a publicly traded entity, through a share exchange. The terms of the agreement included the issuance of new shares of one of the publicly traded bottlers in exchange for 100 percent of the outstanding shares of the remaining three bottlers according to an agreed-upon share exchange ratio. As a result, the Company recorded a net charge of $114 million for those investments in which the Company's carrying value was greater than the fair value of the shares received. These charges were recorded in the line   other income (loss)  net in our consolidated statement of income and impacted the Corporate operating segment. Refer to the heading "Operations Review  Other Income (Loss)  Net" below as well as Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Our Company invests in infrastructure programs with our bottlers that are directed at strengthening our bottling system and increasing unit case volume. Additionally, our Company advances payments to certain customers for distribution rights as well as to fund future marketing activities intended to generate profitable volume and expenses such payments over the periods benefited. Payments under these programs are generally capitalized and reported in the line  s prepaid expenses and other assets or other assets, as appropriate, in our consolidated balance sheets. When facts and circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets (or asset groups) may not be recoverable, management assesses the recoverability of the carrying value by preparing estimates of sales volume and the resulting gross profit and cash flows. These estimated future cash flows are consistent with those we use in our internal planning. If the sum of the expected future cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) is less than the carrying amount, we recognize an impairment loss. The impairment loss recognized is the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the fair value. 

As of December 31, 2015, the carrying value of our property, plant and equipment, net of depreciation, was $12,571 million, or 14 percent of our total assets. Certain events or changes in circumstances may indicate that the recoverability of the carrying amount or remaining useful life of property, plant and equipment should be assessed, including, among others, the manner or length of time in which the Company intends to use the asset, a significant decrease in market value, a significant change in the business climate in a particular market, or a current period operating or cash flow loss combined with historical losses or projected future losses. When such events or changes in circumstances are present and an impairment review is performed, we estimate the future cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset (or asset group) and its eventual disposition. These estimated future cash flows are consistent with those we use in our internal planning. If the sum of the expected future cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) is less than the carrying amount, we recognize an impairment loss. The impairment loss recognized is the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the fair value. We use a variety of methodologies to determine the fair value of property, plant and equipment, including appraisals and discounted cash flow models, which are consistent with the assumptions we believe hypothetical marketplace participants would use. 

Intangible assets are classified into one of three categories: ( 1 )intangible assets with definite lives subject to amortization, ( 2 )intangible assets with indefinite lives not subject to amortization and ( 3 )goodwill. For intangible assets with definite lives, tests for impairment must be performed if conditions exist that indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. For intangible assets with indefinite lives and goodwill, tests for impairment must be performed at least annually or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that assets might be impaired. 

When facts and circumstances indicate that the carrying value of definite-lived intangible assets may not be recoverable, management assesses the recoverability of the carrying value by preparing estimates of sales volume and the resulting gross profit and cash flows. These estimated future cash flows are consistent with those we use in our internal planning. If the sum of the expected future cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) is less than the carrying amount of the asset (or asset group), we recognize an impairment loss. The impairment loss recognized is the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the fair value. We use a variety of methodologies to determine the fair value of these assets, including discounted cash flow models, which are consistent with the assumptions we believe hypothetical marketplace participants would use. 

We test intangible assets determined to have indefinite useful lives, including trademarks, franchise rights and goodwill, for impairment annually, or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that assets might be impaired. Our Company performs these annual impairment reviews as of the first day of our third fiscal quarter. We use a variety of methodologies in conducting impairment assessments of indefinite-lived intangible assets, including, but not limited to, discounted cash flow models, which are based on the assumptions we believe hypothetical marketplace participants would use. For indefinite-lived intangible assets, other than goodwill, if the carrying amount exceeds the fair value, an impairment charge is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. 

The Company has the option to perform a qualitative assessment of indefinite-lived intangible assets, other than goodwill, prior to completing the impairment test described above. The Company must assess whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the intangible asset is less than its carrying amount. If the Company concludes that this is the case, it must perform the testing described above. Otherwise, the Company does not need to perform any further assessment. During 2015, the Company performed qualitative assessments on 25 percent of the carrying value of our indefinite-lived intangible assets other than goodwill. 

We perform impairment tests of goodwill at our reporting unit level, which is one level below our operating segments. Our operating segments are primarily based on geographic responsibility, which is consistent with the way management runs our business. Our operating segments are subdivided into smaller geographic regions or territories that we sometimes refer to as "business units. " These business units are also our reporting units. The Bottling Investments operating segment includes all Company-owned or consolidated bottling operations, regardless of geographic location, except for bottling operations managed by CCR, which are included in our North America operating segment. Generally, each Company-owned or consolidated bottling operation within our Bottling Investments operating segment is its own reporting unit. Goodwill is assigned to the reporting unit or units that benefit from the synergies arising from each business combination. 

The goodwill impairment test consists of a two-step process, if necessary. The first step is to compare the fair value of a reporting unit to its carrying value, including goodwill. We typically use discounted cash flow models to determine the fair value of a reporting unit. The assumptions used in these models are consistent with those we believe hypothetical marketplace participants would use. If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, the second step of the impairment test must be performed in order to determine the amount of impairment loss, if any. The second step compares the implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit's goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, an impairment charge is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. The loss recognized cannot exceed the carrying amount of goodwill. 

The Company has the option to perform a qualitative assessment of goodwill prior to completing the two-step process described above to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill and other intangible assets. If the Company concludes that this is the case, it must perform the two-step process. Otherwise, the Company will forego the two-step process and does not need to perform any further testing. During 2015, the Company performed qualitative assessments on 10 percent of our consolidated goodwill balance. As of December 31, 2015, we did not have any reporting unit with a material amount of goodwill for which it is reasonably likely that it will fail step one of a goodwill impairment test in the near term. 

Intangible assets acquired in recent transactions are naturally more susceptible to impairment, primarily due to the fact that they are recorded at fair value based on recent operating plans and macroeconomic conditions present at the time of acquisition. Consequently, if operating results and/or macroeconomic conditions deteriorate shortly after an acquisition, it could result in the impairment of the acquired assets. A deterioration of macroeconomic conditions may not only negatively impact the estimated operating cash flows used in our cash flow models but may also negatively impact other assumptions used in our analyses, including, but not limited to, the estimated cost of capital and/or discount rates. Additionally, as discussed above, in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, we are required to ensure that assumptions used to determine fair value in our analyses are consistent with the assumptions a hypothetical marketplace participant would use. As a result, the cost of capital and/or discount rates used in our analyses may increase or decrease based on market conditions and trends, regardless of whether our Company's actual cost of capital has changed. Therefore, if the cost of capital and/or discount rates change, our Company may recognize an impairment of an intangible asset in spite of realizing actual cash flows that are approximately equal to, or greater than, our previously forecasted amounts. 

On June 12, 2015, the Company closed a transaction with Monster. Under the terms of the transaction, the Company was required to discontinue selling energy products under one of the trademarks included in the glacau portfolio. During the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company recognized impairment charges of $418 million, primarily as a result of discontinuing these products. The total combined fair value of the various trademarks in the glacau portfolio significantly exceeds the remaining combined carrying value of $2.9 billion as of December 31, 2015. However, the fair value of the individual trademark that was the subject of the impairment charges currently equals its carrying value. 

During 2015, the Company also recorded a charge of $55 million related to the impairment of a Venezuelan trademark. The Venezuelan trademark impairment was due to the Company's revised expectations regarding the convertibility of the local currency. 

These charges were recorded in our Corporate operating segment in the line   other operating charges in our consolidated statement of income and were determined by comparing the fair value of the trademarks, derived using discounted cash flow analyses, to the respective carrying value. Management will continue to monitor the fair value of our intangible assets in future periods. 

The Company did not record any significant impairment charges related to intangible assets during the year ended December 31, 2014. During 2013, the Company recorded charges of $195 million related to certain intangible assets. These charges included $113 million related to the impairment of trademarks recorded in our Bottling Investments and Asia Pacific operating segments. These impairments were primarily due to a strategic decision to phase out certain local-market brands, which resulted in a change in the expected useful life of the intangible assets, and were determined by comparing the fair value of the trademarks, derived using discounted cash flow analyses, to the current carrying value. Additionally, the remaining charge of $82 million related to goodwill recorded in our Bottling Investments operating segment. This charge was primarily the result of management's revised outlook on market conditions and volume performance. The total impairment charges of $195 million were recorded in our Corporate operating segment in the line   other operating charges in our consolidated statements of income. 

Our Company sponsors and/or contributes to pension and postretirement health care and life insurance benefit plans covering substantially all U.S. employees. We also sponsor nonqualified, unfunded defined benefit pension plans for certain associates and participate in multi-employer pension plans in the United States. In addition, our Company and its subsidiaries have various pension plans and other forms of postretirement arrangements outside the United States. 

Management is required to make certain critical estimates related to actuarial assumptions used to determine our pension expense and obligations. We believe the most critical assumptions are related to ( 1 )the discount rate used to determine the present value of the liabilities and ( 2 )the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. All of our actuarial assumptions are reviewed annually. Changes in these assumptions could have a material impact on the measurement of our pension expense and obligations. 

At each measurement date, we determine the discount rate primarily by reference to rates of high-quality, long-term corporate bonds that mature in a pattern similar to the future payments we anticipate making under the plans. As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, the weighted-average discount rate used to compute our pension obligations was 4.25 percent and 3.75 percent, respectively. 

During the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014, and 2013, for plans using the yield curve approach, the Company measured the related service and interest components of net periodic benefit cost for pension and other postretirement benefit plans utilizing the single weighted-average discount rate derived from the yield curve. Effective January 1, 2016, the Company changed the method used to calculate the service and interest components and will measure these costs by applying the specific spot rates along the yield curve to the plans' projected cash flows. The Company believes the new approach provides a more precise measurement of service and interest costs by improving the correlation between projected cash flows and the corresponding spot yield curve rates. The change does not affect the measurement of the Company's pension and other postretirement benefit obligations for those plans and is accounted for as a change in accounting estimate, which is applied prospectively. In 2016, we expect the change in estimate to reduce pension and other postretirement net periodic benefit plan costs by $73 million. 

The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is based upon the long-term outlook of our investment strategy as well as our historical returns and volatilities for each asset class. We also review current levels of interest rates and inflation to assess the reasonableness of our long-term rates. Our pension plan investment objective is to ensure all of our plans have sufficient funds to meet their benefit obligations when they become due. As a result, the Company periodically revises asset allocations, where appropriate, to improve returns and manage risk. The weighted-average expected long-term rate of return used to calculate our pension expense was 8.25 percent in 2015 and 2014. 

In 2015, the Company's total pension expense related to defined benefit plans was $305 million. In 2016, we expect ourtotalpension expense to be $105 million. The anticipated decrease is primarily due to settlement and special termination costs incurred in 2015 of $169 million, the new method to calculate service and interest costs described above, an increase in the weighted-average discount rate used to calculate the Company's benefit obligations and the impact of $471 million of contributions the Company made in early 2016 to U.S. pension plans. The impact of these  s will be partially offset by unfavorable asset performance compared to our expected return during 2015 and a decrease in the expected return on assets for U.S. plans. The estimated impact of a 50 basis-point decrease in the discount rate on our 2016 pension expense would be an increase to our pension expense of $34 million. Additionally, the estimated impact of a 50 basis-point decrease in the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets on our 2016 pension expense would be an increase to our pension expense of $29 million. 

The sensitivity information provided above is based only on changes to the actuarial assumptions used for our U.S. pension plans. As of December 31, 2015, the Company's primary U.S. plan represented 59 percent and 62 percent of the Company's consolidated projected pension benefit obligation and pension assets, respectively. Refer to Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about our pension plans and related actuarial assumptions. 

Effective December 31, 2014, the Company revised our mortality assumptions used to determine the projected benefit obligation of the U.S. defined benefit pension plans. The revised assumptions were derived from the mortality tables and the mortality improvement scales published by the Society of Actuaries in October 2014. The change in mortality assumptions for the U.S. plans resulted in an increase in the projected benefit obligation at December 31, 2014 of $210 million. 

We recognize revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery of products has occurred, the sales price is fixed or determinable and collectibility is reasonably assured. For our Company, this generally means that we recognize revenue when title to our products is transferred to our bottling partners, resellers or other customers. Title usually transfers upon shipment to or receipt at our customers' locations, as determined by the specific sales terms of each transaction. Our sales terms do not allow for a right of return except for matters related to any manufacturing defects on our part. 

Our customers can earn certain incentives which are included in deductions from revenue, a component of net operating revenues in our consolidated statements of income. These incentives include, but are not limited to, cash discounts, funds for promotional and marketing activities, volume-based incentive programs and support for infrastructure programs. Refer to Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The aggregate deductions from revenue recorded by the Company in relation to these programs, including amortization expense on infrastructure programs, were $6.8 billion, $7.0 billion and $6.9 billion in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. In preparing the financial statements, management must make estimates related to the contractual terms, customer performance and sales volume to determine the total amounts recorded as deductions from revenue. Management also considers past results in making such estimates. The actual amounts ultimately paid may be different from our estimates. Such differences are recorded once they have been determined and have historically not been significant. 

On September 17, 2015, the Company received a Notice from the IRS for the tax years 2007 through 2009, after a five-year audit. In the Notice, the IRS claims that the Company's United States taxable income should be increased by an amount that creates a potential additional federal income tax liability of approximately $3.3 billion for the period, plus interest. No penalties were asserted in the Notice; however, the IRS has since taken the position that it is not precluded from asserting penalties and notified the Company that it may do so. 

The IRS designated the matter for litigation on October 15, 2015. The Company firmly believes that the IRS' claims are without merit and plans to pursue all available administrative and judicial remedies necessary to resolve this matter. To that end, the Company filed a petition in U.S. Tax Court on December 14, 2015. The Company believes that the final adjudication of this matter will not have a material impact on its consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows and that it has adequate tax reserves for all tax matters. However, if this dispute were to be ultimately determined adversely to us, the additional tax, interest and any potential penalties could have a material adverse impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Refer to Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

A number of years may elapse before a particular matter for which we have established a reserve is audited and finally resolved. The number of years with open tax audits varies depending on the tax jurisdiction. The tax benefit that has been previously reserved because of a failure to meet the "more likely than not" recognition threshold would be recognized in our income tax expense in the first interim period when the uncertainty disappears under any one of the following conditions: ( 1 )the tax position is "more likely than not" to be sustained, ( 2 )the tax position, amount, and/or timing is ultimately settled through negotiation or litigation, or ( 3 )the statute of limitations for the tax position has expired. Settlement of any particular issue would usually require the use of cash. 

Tax law requires  s to be included in the tax return at different times than when these  s are reflected in the consolidated financial statements. As a result, the annual tax rate reflected in our consolidated financial statements is different from that reported in our tax return (our cash tax rate). Some of these differences are permanent, such as expenses that are not deductible in our tax return, and some differences reverse over time, such as depreciation expense. These timing differences create deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities. The tax rates used to determine deferred tax assets or liabilities are the enacted tax rates in effect for the year and manner in which the differences are expected to reverse. Based on the evaluation of all available information, the Company recognizes future tax benefits, such as net operating loss carryforwards, to the extent that realizing these benefits is considered more likely than not. 

We evaluate our ability to realize the tax benefits associated with deferred tax assets by analyzing our forecasted taxable income using both historical and projected future operating results; the reversal of existing taxable temporary differences; taxable income in prior carryback years (if permitted); and the availability of tax planning strategies. A valuation allowance is required to be established unless management determines that it is more likely than not that the Company will ultimately realize the tax benefit associated with a deferred tax asset. As of December 31, 2015, the Company's valuation allowances on deferred tax assets were $477 million and primarily related to uncertainties regarding the future realization of recorded tax benefits on tax loss carryforwards generated in various jurisdictions. Current evidence does not suggest we will realize sufficient taxable income of the appropriate character within the carryforward period to allow us to realize these deferred tax benefits. If we were to identify and implement tax planning strategies to recover these deferred tax assets or generate sufficient income of the appropriate character in these jurisdictions in the future, it could lead to the reversal of these valuation allowances and a reduction of income tax expense. The Company believes it will generate sufficient future taxable income to realize the tax benefits related to the remaining net deferred tax assets in our consolidated balance sheets. 

The Company does not record a U.S. deferred tax liability for the excess of the book basis over the tax basis of its investments in foreign corporations to the extent that the basis difference results from earnings that meet the indefinite reversal criteria. These criteria are met if the foreign subsidiary has invested, or will invest, the undistributed earnings indefinitely. The decision as to the amount of undistributed earnings that the Company intends to maintain in non-U.S. subsidiaries takes into account  s including, but not limited to, forecasts and budgets of financial needs of cash for working capital, liquidity plans, capital improvement programs, merger and acquisition plans, and planned loans to other non-U.S. subsidiaries. The Company also evaluates its expected cash requirements in the United States. Other factors that can influence that determination are local restrictions on remittances (for example, in some countries a central bank application and approval are required in order for the Company's local country subsidiary to pay a dividend), economic stability and asset risk. As of December 31, 2015, undistributed earnings of the Company's foreign subsidiaries that met the indefinite reversal criteria amounted to $31.9 billion. Refer to Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

The Company's effective tax rate is expected to be 22.5 percent in 2016. This estimated tax rate does not reflect the impact of any unusual or special  s that may affect our tax rate in 2016. 

Our organizational structure as of December 31, 2015, consisted of the following operating segments, the first six of which are sometimes referred to as "operating groups" or "groups": Eurasia and Africa; Europe; Latin America; North America; Asia Pacific; Bottling Investments; and Corporate. For further information regarding our operating segments, refer to Note 19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

In order to continually improve upon the Company's operating performance, from time to time, we engage in buying and selling ownership interests in bottling partners and other manufacturing operations. In addition, we also acquire brands or enter into license agreements for certain brands to supplement our beverage offerings. These  s impact our operating results and certain key metrics used by management in assessing the Company's performance. 

Unit case volume growth is a metric used by management to evaluate the Company's performance because it measures demand for our products at the consumer level. The Company's unit case volume represents the number of unit cases (or unit case equivalents) of Company beverage products directly or indirectly sold by the Company and its bottling partners to customers and, therefore, reflects unit case volume for consolidated and unconsolidated bottlers. Refer to the heading "Beverage Volume" below. 

Concentrate sales volume represents the amount of concentrates and syrups (in all cases expressed in equivalent unit cases) sold by, or used in finished products sold by, the Company to its bottling partners or other customers. Refer to the heading "Beverage Volume" below. 

Our Bottling Investments operating segment and our other finished product operations, including the finished product operations in our North America operating segment, typically generate net operating revenues by selling sparkling beverages and a variety of still beverages, such as juices and juice drinks, energy and sports drinks, ready-to-drink teas and coffees, and certain water products, to retailers or to distributors, wholesalers and bottling partners who distribute them to retailers. In addition, in the United States, we manufacture fountain syrups and sell them to fountain retailers such as restaurants and convenience stores who use the fountain syrups to produce beverages for immediate consumption, or to authorized fountain wholesalers or bottling partners who resell the fountain syrups to fountain retailers. For these consolidated finished product operations, we recognize the associated concentrate sales volume at the time the unit case or unit case equivalent is sold to the customer. Our concentrate operations typically generate net operating revenues by selling concentrates and syrups to authorized bottling and canning operations. For these concentrate operations, we recognize concentrate revenue and concentrate sales volume when we sell concentrate to the authorized unconsolidated bottling and canning operations, and we typically report unit case volume when finished products manufactured from the concentrates and syrups are sold to the customer. When we analyze our net operating revenues we generally consider the following four factors: ( 1 )volume growth (unit case volume or concentrate sales volume, as appropriate), ( 2 )acquisitions and divestitures (including structural changes defined below), as applicable, ( 3 )changes in price, product and geographic mix and ( 4 )foreign currency fluctuations. Refer to the heading "Net Operating Revenues" below. 

We generally refer to acquisition and divestitures of bottling, distribution or canning operations and consolidation or deconsolidation of bottling and distribution entities for accounting purposes as structural changes ("structural changes"). Typically, structural changes do not impact the Company's unit case volume on a consolidated basis or at the geographic operating segment level. We recognize unit case volume for all sales of Company beverage products regardless of our ownership interest in the bottling partner, if any. However, the unit case volume reported by our Bottling Investments operating segment is generally impacted by structural changes because it only includes the unit case volume of our consolidated bottling operations. 

"Acquired brands" refers to brands acquired during the past 12 months. Typically, the Company has not reported unit case volume or recognized concentrate sales volume related to acquired brands in periods prior to the closing of a transaction. Therefore, the unit case volume and concentrate sales volume from the sale of these brands is incremental to prior year volume. We do not generally consider acquired brands to be structural changes. 

"Licensed brands" refers to brands not owned by the Company, but for which we hold certain rights, generally including, but not limited to, distribution rights, and from which we derive an economic benefit when these brands are ultimately sold. Typically, the Company has not reported unit case volume or recognized concentrate sales volume related to these brands in periods prior to the beginning of the term of a license agreement. Therefore, in the year that the licenses are entered into, the unit case volume and concentrate sales volume from the sale of these brands is incremental to prior year volume. We do not generally consider newly licensed brands to be structural changes. 

In 2015, the Company closed a transaction with Monster ("Monster Transaction"), which has been included as a structural change (a component of acquisitions and divestitures) in our analysis of net operating revenues on a consolidated basis as well as for the Eurasia and Africa, Europe, Latin America, North America, Asia Pacific and Corporate operating segments. This transaction consisted of multiple elements including, but not limited to, the acquisition of Monster's non-energy brands and the expansion of our distribution of Monster products into additional U.S. territories. These elements of the transaction impacted the Company's unit case volume and concentrate sales volume and therefore, in addition to being included as a structural change (a component of acquisitions and divestitures), they are also considered acquired brands. See further discussion of this transaction in Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Also during 2015, the Company acquired a South African bottler, which has been included as a structural change (a component of acquisitions and divestitures) in our analysis of net operating revenues on a consolidated basis as well as for the Bottling Investments operating segment. Refer to "Net Operating Revenues" below. 

In 2014, the Company began refranchising territories in North America that were previously managed by CCR to certain of our unconsolidated bottling partners. The impact of these refranchising activities has been included as a structural change (a component of acquisitions and divestitures) in our analysis of net operating revenues on a consolidated basis as well as for our North America operating segment. In addition, for non-Company-owned and licensed beverage products sold in the refranchised territories, we have eliminated the unit case volume and associated concentrate sales from the base year when calculating volume growth rates on a consolidated basis as well as for the North America operating segment. Refer to the headings "Beverage Volume" and "Net Operating Revenues" below. 

In 2014, the Company made a decision to change our process of buying and selling recyclable materials in North America. Also during 2014, the Company transitioned our Russian juice operations to an existing joint venture with an unconsolidated bottling partner and acquired a majority interest in bottling operations in Sri Lanka and Nepal. The impact of these changes is included as a structural change (a component of acquisitions and divestitures) in our analysis of net operating revenues on a consolidated basis as well as for our North America and Bottling Investments operating segments. Refer to the heading "Net Operating Revenues" below. 

In January 2014, the Venezuelan government enacted a new law ("Fair Price Law") that imposes limits on profit margins earned in the country, which limited the amount of revenue the Company was able to recognize in 2014 as compared to 2013. The impact of the Fair Price Law has been included as a structural change in our analysis of operating results for our Latin America segment for the year ended December 31, 2014. "Net Operating Revenues" below. 

In 2013, the Company acquired a majority interest in bottling operations in Myanmar, sold a majority interest in our previously consolidated bottling operations in the Philippines and deconsolidated our bottling operations in Brazil as a result of their combination with an independent bottling partner. Accordingly, the impact to net operating revenues related to these transactions is included as a structural change (a component of acquisitions and divestitures) in our analysis of net operating revenues for our Bottling Investments segment. Refer to the heading "Net Operating Revenues" below. 

The Company sells concentrates and syrups to both consolidated and unconsolidated bottling partners. The ownership structure of our bottling partners impacts the timing of recognizing concentrate revenue and concentrate sales volume. When we sell concentrates or syrups to our consolidated bottling partners, we are not able to recognize the concentrate revenue or concentrate sales volume until the bottling partner has sold finished products manufactured from the concentrates or syrups to a third party or independent customer. When we sell concentrates or syrups to our unconsolidated bottling partners, we recognize the concentrate revenue and concentrate sales volume when the concentrates or syrups are sold to the bottling partner. The subsequent sale of the finished products manufactured from the concentrates or syrups to a customer does not impact the timing of recognizing the concentrate revenue or concentrate sales volume. When we account for an unconsolidated bottling partner as an equity method investment, we eliminate the intercompany profit related to these transactions until the equity method investee has sold finished products manufactured from the concentrates or syrups to a third party or independent customer. 

The Company is currently pursuing certain transactions that, if completed, will be included as structural changes for the applicable periods. In November 2014, the Company and two of our existing bottling partners entered into an agreement to combine each of the parties' bottling operations in Southern and East Africa. In August 2015, the Company entered into an agreement to merge our German bottling operations with the bottling operations of two of our existing bottling partners. Subject to receiving any required regulatory and shareholder approvals, we expect each of these transactions to close during the second quarter of 2016. Additionally, in 2016 we announced our intent to refranchise 100 percent of Company-owned North America bottling territories by the end of 2017. The Company also announced that we have entered into a non-binding letter of intent to refranchise Company-owned bottling operations in China to two of our existing bottling partners. 

We measure the volume of Company beverage products sold in two ways: ( 1 )unit cases of finished products and ( 2 )concentrate sales. As used in this report, "unit case" means a unit of measurement equal to 192 U.S. fluid ounces of finished beverage ( 24 eight-ounce servings); and "unit case volume" means the number of unit cases (or unit case equivalents) of Company beverage products directly or indirectly sold by the Company and its bottling partners to customers. Unit case volume primarily consists of beverage products bearing Company trademarks. Also included in unit case volume are certain products licensed to, or distributed by, our Company, and brands owned by Coca-Cola system bottlers for which our Company provides marketing support and from the sale of which we derive economic benefit. In addition, unit case volume includes sales by certain joint ventures in which the Company has an equity interest. We believe unit case volume is one of the measures of the underlying strength of the Coca-Cola system because it measures trends at the consumer level. The unit case volume numbers used in this report are derived based on estimates received by the Company from its bottling partners and distributors. Concentrate sales volume represents the amount of concentrates and syrups (in all instances expressed in equivalent unit cases) sold by, or used in finished beverages sold by, the Company to its bottling partners or other customers. Unit case volume and concentrate sales volume growth rates are not necessarily equal during any given period. Factors such as seasonality, bottlers' inventory practices, supply point changes, timing of price increases, new product introductions and changes in product mix can impact unit case volume and concentrate sales volume and can create differences between unit case volume and concentrate sales volume growth rates. In addition to the  s mentioned above, the impact of unit case volume from certain joint ventures in which the Company has an equity interest but to which the Company does not sell concentrates or syrups may give rise to differences between unit case volume and concentrate sales volume growth rates. 

The Coca-Cola system sold 29.2 billion, 28.6 billion and 28.2 billion unit cases of our products in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The number of unit cases sold in 2015 and 2014 does not include certain licensed beverage brands sold in the North American refranchised territories and certain brands owned by our Russian juice company. Refer to the heading "Structural Changes, Acquired Brands and Newly Licensed Brands" above. The Company eliminated the unit case volume related to these structural changes from the base year, where applicable, when calculating the volume growth rates. 

Unit case volume in Eurasia and Africa increased 3 percent, which consisted of 2 percent growth in sparkling beverages and 6 percent growth in still beverages. The group's sparkling beverage growth included 3 percent growth in Trademark Coca-Cola, and the growth in still beverages was led by packaged water and juices and juice drinks. Eurasia and Africa benefited from unit case volume growth of 8 percent, 6 percent and 2 percent in the Central, East & West Africa, Southern Africa, and Middle East & North Africa business units, respectively, partially offset by a decline of 4 percent in the Russia, Ukraine & Belarus business unit. 

In Europe, unit case volume grew 2 percent, reflecting 7 percent growth in still beverages and 1 percent growth in sparkling beverages. The growth in still beverages was driven by the group's performance in packaged water, teas, sports drinks and the expansion of the innocent brand. The group's sparkling beverage growth included 9 percent growth in Coca-Cola Zero and 4 percent growth in Trademark Fanta. 

Unit case volume in Latin America grew 1 percent as a result of growth in still beverages of 4 percent and even sparkling beverage volume. The growth in still beverages was led by growth in packaged water, juices and juice drinks and sports drinks. The Latin Center and South Latin business units reported unit case volume growth of 4 percent and 3 percent, respectively. The Mexico business unit reported unit case volume growth of 3 percent, reflecting growth in Trademark Coca-Cola of 3 percent. The growth in the Latin Center, South Latin and Mexico business units was partially offset by a unit case volume decline of 4 percent in the Brazil business unit. 

In North America, unit case volume grew 1 percent. This increase reflects 5 percent growth in still beverage volume and even sparkling beverage volume. The still beverage growth in the group was led by 8 percent growth in packaged water and 6 percent growth in teas. After considering the impact of the acquired volume resulting from the Monster Transaction, North America unit case volume growth remained 1 percent. 

Unit case volume in Asia Pacific increased 4 percent, which consisted of 4 percent growth in both sparkling and still beverage volume. The sparkling beverage volume growth was led by a 5 percent increase in Trademark Coca-Cola, a 4 percent increase in Trademark Sprite and a 6 percent increase in Trademark Fanta. Still beverage volume growth was led by increases in packaged water and teas of 12 percent and 6 percent, respectively. China's unit case volume grew 5 percent during the year, led by 12 percent growth in Trademark Coca-Cola and 3 percent growth in Trademark Sprite. India reported unit case volume growth of 4 percent and Japan reported even volume during the year. 

Unit case volume for Bottling Investments increased 8 percent. This increase primarily reflects the growth in China and India. In addition, unit case volume in Germany grew 2 percent. The Company's consolidated bottling operations accounted for 34 percent, 69 percent, and 100 percent of the unit case volume in China, India and Germany, respectively. 

Unit case volume in Eurasia and Africa increased 4 percent, which consisted of 3 percent growth in sparkling beverages and 8 percent growth in still beverages. The group's sparkling beverage growth included 2 percent growth in Trademark Coca-Cola, 3 percent growth in Trademark Sprite, and 2 percent growth in Trademark Fanta. Growth in the group's still beverages was led by packaged water, juices and juice drinks and teas. The group's growth reflects a continued focus on improved marketplace execution and providing greater consumer choice in package and price options. Eurasia and Africa benefited from unit case volume growth of 7 percent and 6 percent in the Middle East & North Africa and Central, East & West Africa business units, respectively. This growth was partially offset by a decline in unit case volume of 1 percent in the Russia, Ukraine & Belarus business unit. 

In Europe, unit case volume declined 2 percent as a result of a decline in sparkling beverages of 3 percent, partially offset by growth in still beverages of 1 percent. The decline in sparkling beverages reflects the softness in the macroeconomic environment and continuing competitive pressures in the market. The growth in still beverages was led by growth in juices and juice drinks. 

Unit case volume in Latin America increased 1 percent reflecting growth in still beverages of 6 percent and even sparkling beverage volume. The growth in still beverages was led by packaged water, value-added dairy and sports drinks. Latin America benefited from unit case volume growth of 6 percent and 2 percent in the Latin Center and Brazil business units, respectively, partially offset by a volume decline of 1 percent in the Mexico business unit. The decline in Mexico was primarily due to the impact of a new excise tax that went into effect on January 1, 2014. 

In North America, unit case volume was even, reflecting 1 percent growth in still beverages offset by a decline of 1 percent in sparkling beverages. The still beverage growth was led by 8 percent growth in packaged water and 4 percent growth in teas. 

Unit case volume in Asia Pacific increased 5 percent, which consisted of 5 percent growth in sparkling beverages and 4 percent growth in still beverages. The growth in sparkling beverages was led by a 5 percent increase in Trademark Sprite, a 4 percent increase in Trademark Fanta and a 3 percent increase in brand Coca-Cola. Still beverage volume growth was led by packaged water and growth in teas and value-added dairy of 6 percent and 10 percent, respectively. China's unit case volume grew 4 percent, led by 5 percent growth in brand Coca-Cola and 6 percent growth in Trademark Fanta. India reported double-digit volume growth, and Japan reported a volume decline of 1 percent, reflecting 1 percent growth in sparkling beverages offset by a 1 percent decline in still beverages. 

Unit case volume for Bottling Investments decreased 2 percent. This decrease primarily reflects the deconsolidation of our bottling operations in Brazil during July 2013 as a result of their combination with an independent bottling partner. The unfavorable impact of these transactions on the group's unit case volume results was partially offset by growth in other key markets, including China and India, where we own or otherwise consolidate bottling operations. The Company's consolidated bottling operations accounted for 35 percent and 65 percent of the unit case volume in China and India, respectively. 

In 2015, worldwide concentrate sales volume and unit case volume both grew 2 percent compared to 2014. After considering the impact of structural changes, concentrate sales volume grew 1 percent during the year ended December 31, 2015. In 2014, worldwide concentrate sales volume and unit case volume both grew 2 percent compared to 2013. After considering the impact of structural changes, concentrate sales volume grew 1 percent during the year ended December 31, 2014. The differences between concentrate sales volume and unit case volume growth rates worldwide and for individual operating segments in 2015 and 2014 were primarily due to the timing of concentrate shipments and the impact of unit case volume from certain joint ventures in which the Company has an equity interest, but to which the Company does not sell concentrates, syrups, beverage bases or powders. 

Represents the percent change in net operating revenues attributable to the increase (decrease) in concentrate sales volume for our geographic operating segments (expressed in equivalent unit cases) after considering the impact of structural changes. For our Bottling Investments operating segment, this represents the percent change in net operating revenues attributable to the increase (decrease) in unit case volume after considering the impact of structural changes. Our Bottling Investments operating segment data reflects unit case volume growth for consolidated bottlers only. Refer to the heading "Beverage Volume" above. 

"Acquisitions and Divestitures" refers to acquisitions and divestitures of brands or businesses, some of which the Company considers to be structural changes. Refer to the heading "Structural Changes, Acquired Brands and Newly Licensed Brands" above for additional information related to the structural changes. The acquisitions and divestitures percent change for 2015 versus 2014 in the table above consisted entirely of structural changes. 

The unfavorable impact of foreign currency fluctuations decreased our consolidated net operating revenues by 7 percent. This unfavorable impact was primarily due to a stronger U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies, including the South African rand, euro, U.K. pound sterling, Brazilian real, Mexican peso, Australian dollar and Japanese yen, which had an unfavorable impact on our Eurasia and Africa, Europe, Latin America, Asia Pacific and Bottling Investments operating segments. Refer to the heading "Liquidity, Capital Resources and Financial Position Foreign Exchange" below. 

Net operating revenue growth rates are impacted by sales volume; acquisitions and divestitures; price, product and geographic mix; and foreign currency fluctuations. The size and timing of acquisitions and divestitures are not consistent from period to period. The Company currently expects acquisitions and divestitures to have a mid single-digit unfavorable impact on full year 2016 net operating revenues. Based on current spot rates and our hedging coverage in place, we expect currencies will continue to have an unfavorable impact on our full year 2016 net operating revenues. 

Represents the percent change in net operating revenues attributable to the increase (decrease) in concentrate sales volume for our geographic operating segments (expressed in equivalent unit cases) after considering the impact of structural changes. For our Bottling Investments operating segment, this represents the percent change in net operating revenues attributable to the increase (decrease) in unit case volume after considering the impact of structural changes. Our Bottling Investments operating segment data reflects unit case volume growth for consolidated bottlers only. Refer to the heading "Beverage Volume" above. 

"Acquisitions and Divestitures" refers to acquisitions and divestitures of brands or businesses, some of which the Company considers to be structural changes. Refer to the heading "Structural Changes, Acquired Brands and Newly Licensed Brands" above for additional information related to the structural changes. The acquisitions and divestitures percent change for 2014 versus 2013 in the table above consisted entirely of structural changes. The impact of the Venezuelan Fair Price Law reduced our Latin America segment revenues by 5 percent in 2014. 

The unfavorable impact of foreign currency fluctuations decreased our consolidated net operating revenues by 2 percent. The unfavorable currency impact was primarily due to a stronger U.S. dollar compared to certain other foreign currencies, including the South African rand, Mexican peso, Brazilian real, Australian dollar and Japanese yen, which had an unfavorable impact on our Eurasia and Africa, Latin America, Asia Pacific and Bottling Investments operating segments. The unfavorable impact of a stronger U.S. dollar compared to the currencies listed above was partially offset by the impact of a weaker U.S. dollar compared to certain other foreign currencies, including the euro and British pound, which had a favorable impact on our Europe and Bottling Investments operating segments. Refer to the heading "Liquidity, Capital Resources and Financial Position Foreign Exchange" below. 

The percentage contribution of each operating segment fluctuates over time due to net operating revenues in certain operating segments growing at a faster rate compared to other operating segments. Net operating revenue growth rates are impacted by sales volume; acquisitions and divestitures; price, product and geographic mix; and foreign currency fluctuations. For additional information about the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, refer to the heading "Liquidity, Capital Resources and Financial Position Foreign Exchange" below. 

As a result of our finished goods operations, which are primarily included in our North America and Bottling Investments operating segments, the following inputs represent a substantial portion of the Company's total cost of goods sold: ( 1 )sweeteners, ( 2 )metals, ( 3 )juices and ( 4 )PET. The Company enters into hedging activities related to certain commodities in order to mitigate a portion of the price risk associated with forecasted purchases. Many of the derivative financial instruments used by the Company to mitigate the risk associated with these commodity exposures, including any related foreign currency exposure, do not qualify for hedge accounting. As a result, the changes in fair value of these derivative instruments have been, and will continue to be, included as a component of net income in each reporting period. The Company recorded losses related to these derivatives of $206 million, $8 million and $120 million during the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, in the line   cost of goods sold in our consolidated statements of income. Refer to Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We do not currently expect changes in commodity costs to have a significant impact on our 2016 gross profit margin as compared to 2015. 

Our gross profit margin decreased to 60.5 percent in 2015 from 61.1 percent in 2014. The decrease was primarily due to the impact of acquisitions and divestitures and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, partially offset by positive price mix and slightly lower commodity costs. Refer to Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to acquisitions and divestitures. 

Our gross profit margin increased to 61.1 percent in 2014 from 60.7 percent in 2013. The increase was partially due to the deconsolidation of our Brazilian bottling operations in July 2013 as well as lower commodity costs, primarily in our North America finished goods business, and favorable geographic mix. Refer to Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the impact of the deconsolidation of our Brazilian bottling operations. 

The favorable geographic mix was primarily due to growth in emerging markets. Although this shift in geographic mix has a negative impact on net operating revenues, it generally has a favorable impact on our gross profit margin due to the correlated impact it has on our product mix. The product mix in the majority of our emerging and developing markets is more heavily skewed toward our sparkling beverage products, which generally yield a higher gross profit margin compared to our still beverages and finished products. 

Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $791 million, or 5 percent. During the year ended December 31, 2015, fluctuations in foreign currency decreased selling, general and administrative expenses by 6 percent. The increase in stock-based compensation was primarily due to reversals in 2014 of previously recognized expenses related to the Company's long-term incentive programs as performance criteria were not achieved. The increase in advertising expenses reflects the Company's increased investments to strengthen our brands, partially offset by a foreign currency exchange impact of 13 percent. The decrease in selling and distribution expenses reflects the impact of acquisitions and divestitures. The decrease in other operating expenses reflects the shift of the Company's marketing spending to more consumer-facing advertising expenses as well as savings from our productivity and reinvestment initiatives. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations have a more significant impact on both advertising and other operating expenses as compared to our selling and distribution expenses since they are generally transacted in local currency. Our selling and distribution expenses are primarily related to our Company-owned bottling operations, of which the majority of expenses are attributable to CCR and are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars. Refer to Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to acquisitions and divestitures. 

In 2016, our pension expense is expected to decrease by $200 million compared to 2015. The anticipated decrease is primarily due to settlement and special termination costs incurred in 2015 of $169 million, the new method to calculate service and interest costs, an increase in the weighted-average discount rate used to calculate the Company's benefit obligations and the impact of $471 million of contributions the Company made in early 2016 to U.S. pension plans. The impact of these  s will be partially offset by unfavorable asset performance compared to our expected return during 2015 and a decrease in the expected return on assets for U.S. plans. Refer to the heading "Liquidity, Capital Resources and Financial Position" below for information related to these contributions. Refer to the heading "Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Pension Plan Valuations" above and Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to the pension plan assumptions used by the Company. 

As of December 31, 2015, we had $319 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested share-based compensation arrangements granted under our plans. This cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.8 yearsas stock-based compensation expense. This expected cost does not include the impact of any future stock-based compensation awards. Refer to Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $92 million, or 1 percent. Foreign currency fluctuations decreased selling, general and administrative expenses by 2 percent. The decrease in stock-based compensation was primarily due to reversals in 2014 of previously recognized expenses related to the Company's long-term incentive compensation programs. The increase in advertising expenses reflects the company's increased investment to strengthen our brands. This increase was partially offset by a foreign currency exchange impact of 4 percent. The decrease in selling and distribution expenses is a result of the refranchising of certain territories in North America in 2014 and the deconsolidation of our Brazilian bottling operations as a result of their combination with an independent bottling partner in July 2013. 

In 2015, the Company incurred other operating charges of $1,657 million. These charges included $691 million due to the Company's productivity and reinvestment program and $292 million due to the integration of our German bottling operations. In addition, the Company recorded impairment charges of $418 million primarily due to the discontinuation of the energy products in the glacau portfolio as a result of the Monster Transaction and incurred a charge of $100 million due to a cash contribution we made to The Coca-Cola Foundation. The Company also incurred a charge of $111 million due to the write-down we recorded related to receivables from our bottling partner in Venezuela and an impairment of a Venezuelan trademark primarily due to changes in exchange rates as a result of the establishment of the new open market exchange system. Refer to Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Company's productivity, integration and restructuring initiatives. Refer to Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Monster Transaction. Refer to Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Venezuelan currency change. Refer to Note 19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the impact these charges had on our operating segments. 

In 2014, the Company incurred other operating charges of $1,183 million. These charges primarily consisted of $601 million due to the Company's productivity and reinvestment program and $208 million due to the integration of our German bottling operations. In addition, the Company incurred a charge of $314 million due to a write-down we recorded related to receivables from our bottling partner in Venezuela and an impairment of a Venezuelan trademark primarily due to higher exchange rates. The write-down was recorded as a result of our revised assessment of the U.S. dollar value we expect to realize upon the conversion of the Venezuelan bolivar into U.S. dollars by our bottling partner to pay our concentrate sales receivables. The Company also recorded a loss of $36 million as a result of the restructuring and transition of the Company's Russian juice operations to an existing joint venture with an unconsolidated bottling partner. Refer to Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and see below for additional information on our productivity and reinvestment program as well as the Company's other productivity, integration and restructuring initiatives. Refer to Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Venezuelan currency rate change. Refer to Note 19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the impact these charges had on our operating segments. 

In 2013, the Company incurred other operating charges of $895 million, which primarily consisted of $494 million associated with the Company's productivity and reinvestment program; $195 million due to the impairment of certain intangible assets; $188 million due to the Company's other productivity, integration and restructuring initiatives; and $22 million due to charges associated with certain of the Company's fixed assets. Refer to Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the impairment charges. Refer to Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and see below for further information on the Company's productivity and reinvestment program, as well as the Company's other productivity, integration and restructuring initiatives. Refer to Note 19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the impact these charges had on our operating segments. 

In February 2012, the Company announced a four-year productivity and reinvestment program designed to further enable our efforts to strengthen our brands and reinvest our resources to drive long-term profitable growth. This program is focused on thefollowing initiatives: global supply chain optimization; global marketing and innovation effectiveness; operating expenseleverage and operational excellence; data and information technology systems standardization; and the integration of Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc.'s ("Old CCE") former North America business. 

In February 2014, the Company announced the expansion of our productivity and reinvestment program to drive an incremental $1 billion in productivity by 2016 that will primarily be redirected into increased media investments. Our incremental productivity goal consists of two relatively equal components. First, we will expand savings through global supply chain optimization, data and information technology system standardization, and resource and cost reallocation. Second, we will increase the effectiveness of our marketing investments by transforming our marketing and commercial model to redeploy resources into more consumer-facing marketing investments to accelerate growth. 

In October 2014, the Company announced that we are further expanding our productivity and reinvestment program and extending it through 2019. The expansion of the productivity initiatives will focus on four key areas: restructuring the Company's global supply chain, including manufacturing in North America; implementing zero-based work, an evolution of zero-based budget principles, across the organization; streamlining and simplifying the Company's operating model; and further driving increased discipline and efficiency in direct marketing investments. The Company expects that the expanded productivity initiatives will generate an incremental $2 billion in annualized productivity. This productivity will enable the Company to fund marketing initiatives and innovation required to deliver sustainable net revenue growth and will also support margin expansion and increased returns on invested capital over time. We expect to achieve total annualized productivity of approximately $3.6 billion by 2019 from the initiatives implemented under this program since it began in 2012. 

We have incurred total pretax expenses of $2,056 million since the initiative commenced in 2012. Refer to Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

In 2008, the Company began the integration of our German bottling operations acquired in 2007. Since the integration commenced, the Company has incurred total pretax expenses of $1,127 million primarily related to involuntary terminations. We are currently reviewing additional restructuring opportunities within the German bottling operations, including integration costs related to information technology and other initiatives. If implemented, these initiatives will result in additional charges in future periods. Our German bottling operations are now classified as held for sale. Refer to Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

In 2015, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations unfavorably impacted consolidated operating income by 12 percent. This unfavorable impact was primarily due to a stronger U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies, including the South African rand, euro, U.K. pound sterling, Brazilian real, Mexican peso, Australian dollar and Japanese yen, which had an unfavorable impact on our Eurasia and Africa, Europe, Latin America, Asia Pacific and Bottling Investments operating segments. Refer to the heading "Liquidity, Capital Resources and Financial Position Foreign Exchange" below. 

During the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company's operating income was unfavorably impacted by the refranchising of additional territories in North America and the sale of the Company's energy brands as part of the Monster Transaction. The refranchising activities unfavorably impacted our North America operating segment and the sale of the energy brands unfavorably impacted our Eurasia and Africa, Europe, Latin America, North America and Asia Pacific operating segments. Refer to Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

Operating income for Eurasia and Africa for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 was $987 million and $1,084 million, respectively. The segment was unfavorably impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates of 16 percent, partially offset by favorable pricing across most of the segment's business units. 

Operating income for Europe for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 was $2,888 million and $2,852 million, respectively. The Europe group was favorably impacted by a reduction in other operating charges primarily related to the Company's productivity and reinvestment program. The favorable impact of the reduction in other operating charges was partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations of 3 percent. 

Operating income for the Latin America segment for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 was $2,169 million and $2,316 million, respectively. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations unfavorably impacted operating income by 31 percent, partially offset by the reduction in other operating charges and favorable price mix in all of the segment's business units. 

North America's operating income for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 was $2,490 million and $2,447 million, respectively. The segment was favorably impacted by price increases and product and package mix, partially offset by an increase in other operating charges. 

Operating income in Asia Pacific for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 was $2,189 million and $2,448 million, respectively. Operating income for the segment reflects the unfavorable impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations of 8 percent. 

Our Bottling Investments segment's operating income for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 was zero and $9 million, respectively. The Bottling Investments segment was unfavorably impacted by an increase in other operating charges partially offset by the favorable impact of acquisitions and divestitures. Refer to Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to acquisitions and divestitures. 

The Corporate segment's operating loss for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 was $1,995 million and $1,448 million, respectively. Operating loss in 2015 was unfavorably impacted by an impairment charge of $418 million primarily related to the discontinuation of the energy products in the glacau portfolio as a result of the Monster Transaction, a charge of $100 million due to a cash contribution we made to The Coca-Cola Foundation and a $111 million charge due to an impairment of a Venezuelan trademark and a write-down the Company recorded on receivables from our bottling partner in Venezuela. 

In 2014, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations unfavorably impacted consolidated operating income by 6 percent. The unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates was primarily due to a stronger U.S. dollar compared to certain other foreign currencies, including the South African rand, Mexican peso, Brazilian real, Australian dollar and Japanese yen, which had an unfavorable impact on our Eurasia and Africa, Latin America, Asia Pacific and Bottling Investments operating segments. The unfavorable impact of a stronger U.S. dollar compared to the currencies listed above was partially offset by the impact of a weaker U.S. dollar compared to certain other foreign currencies, including the euro and British pound, which had a favorable impact on our Europe and Bottling Investments operating segments. Refer to the heading "Liquidity, Capital Resources and Financial Position Foreign Exchange" below. 

Operating income for Eurasia and Africa for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 was $1,084 million and $1,087 million, respectively. The segment was unfavorably impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates of 12 percent. The unfavorable impact of the foreign currency exchange rates was offset by favorable pricing across many of the segment's markets. 

Europes operating income for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 was $2,852 million and $2,859 million, respectively. The Europe group was favorably impacted by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations of 2 percent. The favorable impact of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations was offset by lower concentrate sales volume and increased charges related to the Companys productivity and reinvestment program. 

Operating income in Latin America for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 was $2,316 million and $2,908 million, respectively. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and the Venezuelan Fair Price Law unfavorably impacted operating income by 12 percent and 9 percent, respectively. Operating income was also unfavorably impacted by the write-down of receivables from our local bottling partner in Venezuela. Refer to Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the write-down of receivables. The impact of these  s was partially offset by favorable price mix in all of the segment's business units. 

North America's operating income for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 was $2,447 million and $2,432 million, respectively. The segment was favorably impacted by positive price mix and lower commodity costs, partially offset by increased marketing investments. 

Operating income in Asia Pacific for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 was $2,448 million and $2,478 million, respectively. Operating income was favorably impacted by a 5 percent increase in concentrate sales and a reduction in operating expenses, offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations of 8 percent. 

Our Bottling Investments segment's operating income for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 was $9 million and $115 million, respectively. The primary reason for the decrease in operating income was the deconsolidation of the Company's Brazilian bottling operations in July 2013 and increased restructuring expenses incurred by our German bottling operations. In addition, fluctuations in foreign currency unfavorably impacted the segment's 2014 operating income by 4 percent. 

The Corporate segment's operating loss for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 was $1,448 million and $1,651 million, respectively. Operating loss in 2013 was unfavorably impacted by a $195 million charge due to the impairment of certain intangible assets. 

Interest income was $613 million in 2015, compared to $594 million in 2014, an increase of $19 million, or 3 percent. The increase primarily reflects higher average cash and investment balances and higher average interest rates in certain of our international locations, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates due to a stronger U.S. dollar against most major currencies. 

Interest income was $594 million in 2014, compared to $534 million in 2013, an increase of $60 million, or 11 percent. The increase primarily reflects higher cash balances and higher average interest rates in certain of our international locations, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates due to a stronger U.S. dollar against most major currencies. 

Interest expense was $856 million in 2015, compared to $483 million in 2014, an increase of $373 million, or 77 percent. The increase is primarily due to charges of $320 million the Company recorded on the early extinguishment of certain long-term debt. These charges included the difference between the reacquisition price and the net carrying amount of the debt extinguished, including the impact of the related fair value hedging relationship. Interest expense also increased as a result of an overall increase in the total debt balances and a shift in the mix of our debt portfolio from short-term to long-term debt. During the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company issued SFr 1,325 million, 8,500 million and $4,000 million of long-term debt. Refer to Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to the Company's hedging program. Refer to the heading "Liquidity, Capital Resources and Financial Position  Cash Flows from Financing Activities  Debt Financing" below and Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to the Company's long-term debt. 

Interest expense was $483 million in 2014, compared to $463 million in 2013, an increase of $20 million, or 4 percent. The increase primarily reflects the impact of additional long-term debt the Company issued during late 2013 and 2014 as well as the unfavorable impact of interest rate swaps. In addition, interest expense in 2013 included charges related to the Company's early extinguishment of long-term debt. Refer to Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to the Company's hedging program. Refer to the heading "Liquidity, Capital Resources and Financial Position  Cash Flows from Financing Activities  Debt Financing" below for additional information related to the Company's long-term debt. 

Equity income (loss) net represents our Company's proportionate share of net income or loss from each of our equity method investees. In 2015, equity income was $489 million, compared to equity income of $769 million in 2014, a decrease of $280 million, or 36 percent. This decrease reflects, among other  s, the unfavorable impact of the challenging economic conditions around the world where many of our equity method investees operate and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates due to a stronger U.S. dollar against most major currencies. The impact of these  s was partially offset by the impact of acquisitions of equity investees. Refer to Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

In 2014, equity income was $769 million, compared to equity income of $602 million in 2013, an increase of $167 million, or 28 percent. This increase was primarily due to more favorable operating results reported by several of our equity method investees, a decrease in the impact of unusual or infrequent charges recorded by certain of our equity method investees, and the deconsolidation of our Brazilian bottling operations during 2013, which is now an equity method investee. This increase was partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign currency fluctuations. 

Other income (loss) net includes, among other things, the impact of foreign currency exchange gains and losses; dividend income; rental income; gains and losses related to the disposal of property, plant and equipment; gains and losses related to business combinations and disposals; realized and unrealized gains and losses on trading securities; realized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities; other-than-temporary impairments of available-for-sale securities; and the accretion of expense related to certain acquisitions. The foreign currency exchange gains and losses are primarily the result of the remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities from certain currencies into functional currencies. The effects of the remeasurement of these assets and liabilities are partially offset by the impact of our economic hedging program for certain exposures on our consolidated balance sheets. Refer to Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

In 2015, other income (loss)  net was income of $631 million. This income included a net gain of $1,403 million as a result the Monster Transaction, primarily due to the difference in the recorded carrying value of the assets transferred, including an allocated portion of goodwill, compared to the value of the total assets and business acquired. Other income (loss) net also included net foreign currency exchange gains of $149 million and dividend income of $83 million. This income was partially offset by noncash losses of $1,006 million due to refranchising activities in North America. The net foreign currency exchange gains included a gain of $300 million associated with our foreign-denominated debt partially offset by a charge of $27 million due to the initial remeasurement of the net monetary assets of our Venezuelan subsidiary using the SIMADI exchange rate. The Company determined that based on its economic circumstances, the SIMADI rate best represented the applicable rate at which future transactions could be settled, including the payment of dividends. As such, the Company remeasured the net assets related to its operations in Venezuela using the current SIMADI rate. Refer to Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Monster Transaction and North America refranchising. Refer to the heading "Liquidity, Capital Resources and Financial Position  Foreign Exchange" below and Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the charge due to the change in Venezuelan exchange rates. 

In 2014, other income (loss)  net was a loss of $1,263 million, primarily due to noncash losses of $799 million related to the refranchising of certain territories in North America and foreign exchange losses of $569 million, including a charge of $372 million due to the remeasurement of the net monetary assets of our Venezuelan subsidiary using the SICAD 2 exchange rate. These charges were partially offset by dividend income of $51 million and net gains of $45 million related to fluctuations in the carrying value of the Company's trading securities and sales of available-for-sale securities. Refer to Note 1, Note 2 and Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

In 2013, other income (loss)  net was income of $576 million, primarily related to a gain of $615 million due to the deconsolidation of our Brazilian bottling operations as a result of their combination with an independent bottling partner; a gain of $139 million as a result of Coca-Cola FEMSA, an equity method investee, issuing additional shares of its own stock at per share amounts greater than the carrying value of the Company's per share investment; and dividend income of $70 million. The favorable impact of these  s was partially offset by a charge of $140 million due to the devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar, which resulted in the Company remeasuring the net assets related to its operations in Venezuela, and a net charge of $114 million related to our investment in four bottling partners that merged during 2013 to form CCEJ through a share exchange. Refer to Note 2 and Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Our effective tax rate reflects the tax benefits of having significant operations outside the United States, which are generally taxed at rates lower than the U.S. statutory rate of 35.0 percent. As a result of employment actions and capital investments made by the Company, certain tax jurisdictions provide income tax incentive grants, including Brazil, Costa Rica, Singapore and Swaziland. The terms of these grants expire from 2016 to 2023. We anticipate that we will be able to extend or renew the grants in these locations. Tax incentive grants favorably impacted our income tax expense by $223 million, $265 million and $279 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. In addition, our effective tax rate reflects the benefits of having significant earnings generated in investments accounted for under the equity method of accounting, which are generally taxed at rates lower than the U.S. statutory rate. 

Includes a pretax charge of $27 million (or a 0.1 percent impact on our effective tax rate) due to the remeasurement of the net monetary assets of our local Venezuelan subsidiary into U.S. dollars using the SIMADI exchange rate. Refer to Note 1 and Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Includes a tax benefit of $5 million on a pretax charge of $87 million (or a 0.3 percent impact on our effective tax rate) related to our proportionate share of unusual or infrequent  s recorded by our equity method investees. Refer to Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Includes a tax benefit of $45 million on a pretax charge of $225 million (or a 0.3 percent impact on our effective tax rate) primarily due to an impairment of a Venezuelan trademark, a write-down of receivables from our bottling partner in Venezuela, a cash contribution to The Coca-Cola Foundation and charges associated with ongoing tax litigation. Refer to Note 1 and Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Includes a tax benefit of $259 million on pretax charges of $983 million (or a 0.9 percent impact on our effective tax rate) primarily related to the Company's productivity and reinvestment program as well as other restructuring initiatives. Refer to Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Includes tax expense of $150 million on pretax income of $77 million (or a 1.3 percent impact on our effective rate) primarily due to the gain related to the Monster Transaction, offset by charges related to the refranchising of certain territories in North America and charges associated with the early extinguishment of long-term debt. Refer to Note 2 and Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Includes tax expense of $6 million on a pretax net charge of $372 million (or a 1.5 percent impact on our effective tax rate) due to the remeasurement of the net monetary assets of our local Venezuelan subsidiary into U.S. dollars using the SICAD 2 exchange rate. Refer to Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Includes tax expense of $55 million on a pretax charge of $352 million (or a 1.9 percent impact on our effective tax rate) primarily due to an impairment of a Venezuelan trademark, a write-down on receivables from our bottling partner in Venezuela, a charge associated with certain of the Company's fixed assets, and as a result of the restructuring and transition of the Company's Russian juice operations to an existing joint venture with an unconsolidated bottling partner. Refer to Note 1 and Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Includes a tax benefit of $191 million on pretax charges of $809 million (or a 1 percent impact on our effective tax rate) primarily related to the Company's productivity and reinvestment program as well as other restructuring initiatives. Refer to Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Includes tax expense of $279 million on pretax net gains of $501 million (or a 0.9 percent impact on our effective tax rate) related to the deconsolidation of our Brazilian bottling operations upon their combination with an independent bottler and a loss due to the merger of four of the Company's Japanese bottling partners. Refer to Note 2 and Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Includes tax expense of $3 million (or a 0.5 percent impact on our effective tax rate) related to a charge of $149 million due to the devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar. Refer to Note 19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Includes a tax benefit of $8 million on a pretax charge of $159 million (or a 0.4 percent impact on our effective tax rate) related to our proportionate share of unusual or infrequent  s recorded by our equity method investees. Refer to Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Includes a tax benefit of $175 million on pretax charges of $877 million (or a 1.2 percent impact on our effective tax rate) primarily related to impairment charges recorded on certain of the Company's intangible assets and charges related to the Company's productivity and reinvestment program as well as other restructuring initiatives. Refer to Note 17 and Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

As of December 31, 2015, the gross amount of unrecognized tax benefits was $168 million. If the Company were to prevail on all uncertain tax positions, the net effect would be a benefit to the Company's effective tax rate of $148 million, exclusive of any benefits related to interest and penalties. The remaining $20 million, which was recorded as a deferred tax asset, primarily represents tax benefits that would be received in different tax jurisdictions in the event the Company did not prevail on all uncertain tax positions. 

The Company recognizes accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. The Company had $111 million, $113 million and $105 million in interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits accrued as of December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Of these amounts, $8 million of expense and $8 million of benefit were recognized through income tax expense in 2014 and 2013, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2015, an insignificant amount of interest and penalties were recognized through income tax expense. If the Company were to prevail on all uncertain tax positions, the reversal of this accrual would also be a benefit to the Company's effective tax rate. 

We believe our ability to generate cash flows from operating activities is one of our fundamental financial strengths. Refer to the heading "Cash Flows from Operating Activities" below. The near-term outlook for our business remains strong, and we expect to generate substantial cash flows from operations in 2016. As a result of our expected cash flows from operations, we have significant flexibility to meet our financial commitments. The Company does not typically raise capital through the issuance of stock. Instead, we use debt financing to lower our overall cost of capital and increase our return on shareowners' equity. Cash Flows from Financing Activities" below. We have a history of borrowing funds domestically and continue to have the ability to borrow funds domestically at reasonable interest rates. In addition, our domestic entities have recently borrowed and continue to have the ability to borrow funds in international markets at reasonable interest rates. Our debt financing includes the use of an extensive commercial paper program as part of our overall cash management strategy. The Company reviews its optimal mix of short-term and long-term debt regularly and may replace certain amounts of commercial paper, short-term debt and current maturities of long-term debt with new issuances of long-term debt in the future. In addition to the Company's cash balances, commercial paper program, and our ability to issue long-term debt, we also had $8,340 million in lines of credit for general corporate purposes as of December 31, 2015. These backup lines of credit expire at various times from 2016 through 2019. 

We have significant operations outside the United States. Unit case volume outside the United States represented 81 percent of the Company's worldwide unit case volume in 2015. We earn a substantial amount of our consolidated operating income and income before income taxes in foreign subsidiaries that either sell concentrate to our local bottling partners or, in certain instances, sell finished products directly to our customers to fulfill the demand for Company beverage products outside the United States. A significant portion of these foreign earnings is considered to be indefinitely reinvested in foreign jurisdictions where the Company has made, and will continue to make, substantial investments to support the ongoing development and growth of our international operations. Accordingly, no U.S. federal and state income taxes have been provided on the portion of our foreign earnings that is considered to be indefinitely reinvested in foreign jurisdictions. The Company's cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and marketable securities held by our foreign subsidiaries totaled $17.9 billion as of December 31, 2015. With the exception of an insignificant amount, for which U.S. federal and state income taxes have already been provided, we do not intend, nor do we foresee a need, to repatriate these funds. 

Net operating revenues in the United States were $20.4 billion in 2015, or 46 percent of the Company's consolidated net operating revenues. We expect existing domestic cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, marketable securities, cash flows from operations and the issuance of debt to continue to be sufficient to fund our domestic operating activities and cash commitments for investing and financing activities. In addition, we expect existing foreign cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, marketable securities and cash flows from operations to continue to be sufficient to fund our foreign operating activities and cash commitments for investing activities. 

In the future, should we require more capital to fund significant discretionary activities in the United States than is generated by our domestic operations and is available through the issuance of domestic debt, we could elect to repatriate future periods' earnings from foreign jurisdictions. This alternative could result in a higher effective tax rate in the future. While the likelihood is remote, the Company could also elect to repatriate earnings from foreign jurisdictions that have previously been considered to be indefinitely reinvested. Upon distribution of those earnings in the form of dividends or otherwise, the Company would be subject to additional U.S. income taxes (net of an adjustment for foreign tax credits) and withholding taxes payable to various foreign jurisdictions, where applicable. This alternative could also result in a higher effective tax rate in the period in which such a determination is made to repatriate prior period foreign earnings. Refer to Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information related to our income taxes and undistributed earnings of the Company's foreign subsidiaries. 

Based on all the aforementioned factors, the Company believes its current liquidity position is strong, and we will continue to meet all of our financial commitments for the foreseeable future. These obligations and anticipated cash outflows include, but are not limited to, regular quarterly dividends, debt maturities, capital expenditures, share repurchases and obligations included under the heading "Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Aggregate Contractual Obligations" below. 

Cash flows from operating activities decreased $87 million, or 1 percent, in 2015 compared to 2014. This decrease primarily reflects the impact of foreign currency fluctuations and an increase in tax payments, partially offset by the efficient management of working capital. Refer to the heading "Operations Review  Net Operating Revenues" above for additional information on the impact of foreign currency fluctuations. Refer to Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the tax payments. 

Cash flows from operating activities increased $73 million, or 1 percent, in 2014 compared to 2013. This increase primarily reflects the incremental pension contributions that were made in the first quarter of 2013 compared to 2014 as well as efficient management of working capital. The increase was partially offset by an unfavorable impact of currency exchange rates during 2014. Refer to the heading "Operations Review  Net Operating Revenues" above for additional information on the impact of foreign currency fluctuations. 

In 2015, purchases of investments were $15,831 million and proceeds from disposals of investments were $14,079 million. This activity resulted in a net cash outflow of $1,752 million during 2015. In 2014, purchases of investments were $17,800 million and proceeds from disposals of investments were $12,986 million, resulting in a net cash outflow of $4,814 million. In 2013, purchases of investments were $14,782 million and proceeds from disposals of investments were $12,791 million, resulting in a net cash outflow of $1,991 million. These investments include time deposits that have maturities greater than three months but less than one year and are classified in the line   short-term investments in our consolidated balance sheets. The purchases during the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 include our investments in Keurig Green Mountain, Inc. ("Keurig") of $830 million and $1,567 million, respectively, partially offset by the net purchases and proceeds of our short-term investments that were made as part of the Company's overall cash management strategy. Refer to Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our investment in Keurig. In December 2015, Keurig announced that it had entered into an agreement with JAB Holding Company ("JAB") under which a JAB-led investor group will acquire Keurig for $92 per share in cash. The transaction is expected to close in the first quarter of 2016, subject to customary closing conditions, including receipt of regulatory approvals. Upon the sale of its shares, the Company will receive proceeds of approximately $2,380 million. 

In 2013, our Company's acquisitions of businesses, equity method investments and nonmarketable securities totaled $353 million. These activities primarily included our acquisition of the majority of the remaining outstanding shares of innocent and a majority interest in bottling operations in Myanmar. 

In 2015, proceeds from disposals of businesses, equity method investments and nonmarketable securities were $565 million, which included cash received as a result of a Brazilian bottling entity's majority interest owners exercising their option to acquire from us an additional equity interest. The proceeds from disposals of businesses, equity method investments and nonmarketable securities during 2015 also included the proceeds from the sale of the Company's distribution assets, certain working capital  s, and the grant of exclusive rights to distribute certain beverage brands not owned by the Company, but distributed by CCR, to certain unconsolidated bottling partners as part of the North America refranchising. Refer to Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

In 2014, proceeds from disposals of businesses, equity method investments and nonmarketable securities were $148 million, which represented the proceeds from the sale of the Company's distribution assets, certain working capital  s, and the grant of exclusive rights to distribute certain beverage brands not owned by the Company, but distributed by CCR, to certain unconsolidated bottling partners as part of the North America refranchising. Refer to Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

In 2013, proceeds from disposals of businesses, equity method investments and nonmarketable securities were $872 million. These proceeds primarily related to the sale of a majority ownership interest in our previously consolidated Philippine bottling operations, and separately, the deconsolidation of our Brazilian bottling operations. Refer to Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

In 2015, cash used in other investing activities included a $530 million payment related to the Monster Transaction, partially offset by the cash flow impact of the Company's derivative contracts designated as net investment hedges. Refer to Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Monster Transaction and Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Company's derivative contracts designated as net investment hedges. 

In 2013, other investing activities were primarily related to the acquisition of trademarks and certain other intangible assets. None of these investments was individually significant. 

Our Company maintains debt levels we consider prudent based on our cash flows, interest coverage ratio and percentage of debt to capital. We use debt financing to lower our overall cost of capital, which increases our return on shareowners' equity. This exposes us to adverse changes in interest rates. Our interest expense may also be affected by our credit ratings. 

In February 2016, Standard & Poor's downgraded the Company's long-term debt rating to AA- with a stable outlook. The Company does not believe that this downgrade will have a material adverse effect on our cost of borrowing. 

We monitor our financial ratios and, as indicated above, the rating agencies consider these ratios in assessing our credit ratings. Each rating agency employs a different aggregation methodology and has different thresholds for the various financial ratios. These thresholds are not necessarily permanent, nor are they always fully disclosed to our Company. 

Our global presence and strong capital position give us access to key financial markets around the world, enabling us to raise funds at a low effective cost. This posture, coupled with active management of our mix of short-term and long-term debt and our mix of fixed-rate and variable-rate debt, results in a lower overall cost of borrowing. Our debt management policies, in conjunction with our share repurchase program and investment activity, can result in current liabilities exceeding current assets. 

Issuances and payments of debt included both short-term and long-term financing activities. In 2015, the Company had issuances of debt of $40,434 million, which included net issuances of $25,923 million of commercial paper and short-term debt with maturities greater than 90 days. The Company's total issuances of debt also included long-term debt issuances of $14,511 million, net of related discounts, premiums and issuance costs. 

During 2015, the Company made payments of $37,738 million, which included net payments of $208 million of commercial paper and short-term debt with maturities of 90 days or less, $31,711 million of payments of commercial paper and short-term debt with maturities greater than 90 days and long-term debt payments of $5,819 million. The long-term debt payments included the extinguishment of $2,039 million of long-term debt prior to maturity, which resulted in associated charges of $320 million that were recorded in the line   interest expense in our consolidated statement of income. These charges included the difference between the reacquisition price and the net carrying amount of the debt extinguished, including the impact of the related fair value hedging relationship. 

In 2014, the Company had issuances of debt of $41,674 million, which included net issuances of $317 million of commercial paper and short-term debt with maturities of 90 days or less and $37,799 million of issuances of commercial paper and short-term debt with maturities greater than 90 days. The Company's total issuances of debt also included long-term debt issuances of $3,558 million, net of related discounts and issuance costs. 

In 2013, the Company had issuances of debt of $43,425 million, which included $35,944 million of issuances of commercial paper and short-term debt with maturities greater than 90 days. The Company's total issuances of debt also included long-term debt issuances of $7,481 million, net of related discounts and issuance costs. 

During 2013, the Company made payments of debt of $38,714 million, which included $70 million of net payments of commercial paper and short-term debt with maturities of 90 days or less, $35,199 million of payments of commercial paper and short-term debt with maturities greater than 90 days and long-term debt payments of $3,445 million. The long-term debt payments included the extinguishment of $2,154 million of long-term debt prior to maturity, which resulted in associated charges of $53 million, including hedge accounting adjustments reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income, in the line   interest expense in our consolidated statement of income during the year ended December 31, 2013. 

The carrying value of the Company's long-term debt included fair value adjustments related to the debt assumed from Old CCE of $411 million and $464 million as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. These fair value adjustments are being amortized over the number of years remaining until the underlying debt matures. As of December 31, 2015, the weighted-average maturity of the assumed debt to which these fair value adjustments relate was approximately 20 years. The amortization of these fair value adjustments will be a reduction of interest expense in future periods, which will typically result in our interest expense being less than the actual interest paid to service the debt. Total interest paid was $515 million, $498 million and $498 million in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Refer to Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to the Company's long-term debt balances. 

On July 20, 2006, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized a share repurchase program of up to 600 million shares of the Company's common stock. The program took effect on October 31, 2006. Although there were approximately 43 million shares that were yet to be purchased under this share repurchase program, the Board of Directors authorized a new share repurchase program of up to 500 million shares of the Company's common stock on October 18, 2012 (" 2012 Plan"). The 2012 Plan allowed the Company to continue repurchasing shares following the completion of the prior program. 

Since the inception of our initial share repurchase program in 1984 through our current program as of December 31, 2015, we have purchased 3.3 billion shares of our Company's common stock at an average price per share of $15.36. In addition to shares repurchased under the share repurchase program authorized by our Board of Directors, the Company's treasury stock activity also includes shares surrendered to the Company to pay the exercise price and/or to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with so-called stock swap exercises of employee stock options and/or the vesting of restricted stock issued to employees. In 2015, we repurchased $3.5 billion of our stock. However, due to the timing of settlements, the total amount of treasury stock purchases that settled during 2015 was $3.6 billion, which includes treasury stock that was purchased and settled during 2015 as well as treasury stock purchased in December 2014 that settled in early 2015. The net impact of the Company's treasury stock issuance and purchase activities in 2015 resulted in a net cash outflow of $2.3 billion. We currently expect to repurchase $2.0 billion to $2.5 billion of our stock during 2016, net of proceeds from the issuance of treasury stock due to the exercise of employee stock options. 

At its February 2016 meeting, our Board of Directors increased our quarterly dividend by 6 percent, raising it to $0.35 per share, equivalent to a full year dividend of $1.40 per share in 2016. This is our 54 th consecutive annual increase. Our annual common stock dividend was $1.32 per share, $1.22 per share and $1.12 per share in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The 2015 dividend represented an 8 percent increase from 2014, and the 2014 dividend represented a 9 percent increase from 2013. 

As of December 31, 2015, we were contingently liable for guarantees of indebtedness owed by third parties of $572 million, of which $263 million was related to VIEs. These guarantees are primarily related to third-party customers, bottlers, vendors and container manufacturing operations and have arisen through the normal course of business. These guarantees have various terms, and none of these guarantees was individually significant. The amount represents the maximum potential future payments that we could be required to make under the guarantees; however, we do not consider it probable that we will be required to satisfy these guarantees. 

Company under these guarantees is not probable. As of December 31, 2015, we were not directly liable for the debt of any unconsolidated entity, and we did not have any retained or contingent interest in assets as defined above. 

Our Company recognizes all derivatives as either assets or liabilities at fair value in our consolidated balance sheets. Refer to Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

As of December 31, 2015, the Company had $8,340 million in lines of credit for general corporate purposes. These backup lines of credit expire at various times from 2016 through 2019. There were no borrowings under these backup lines of credit during 2015. These credit facilities are subject to normal banking terms and conditions. Some of the financial arrangements require compensating balances, none of which are presently significant to our Company. 

Refer to Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding short-term loans and notes payable. Upon payment of outstanding commercial paper, we typically issue new commercial paper. Lines of credit and other short-term borrowings are expected to fluctuate depending upon current liquidity needs, especially at international subsidiaries. 

Refer to Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding long-term debt. We will consider several alternatives to settle this long-term debt, including the use of cash flows from operating activities, issuance of commercial paper or issuance of other long-term debt. 

We calculated estimated interest payments for our long-term debt based on the applicable rates and payment dates. For our variable rate debt, we have assumed the December 31, 2015 rate for all years presented. We typically expect to settle such interest payments with cash flows from operating activities and/or short-term borrowings. 

Refer to Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding income taxes. As of December 31, 2015, the noncurrent portion of our income tax liability, including accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits, was $267 million, which was not included in the total above. At this time, the settlement period for the noncurrent portion of our income tax liability cannot be determined. In addition, any payments related to unrecognized tax benefits would be partially offset by reductions in payments in other jurisdictions. 

Purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including long-term contractual obligations, open purchase orders, accounts payable and certain accrued liabilities. We expect to fund these obligations with cash flows from operating activities. 

The total accrued benefit liability for pension and other postretirement benefit plans recognized as of December 31, 2015, was $2,619 million. Refer to Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. This amount is impacted by, among other  s, pension expense, funding levels, plan amendments, changes in plan demographics and assumptions, and the investment return on plan assets. Because the accrued liability does not represent expected liquidity needs, we did not include this amount in the contractual obligations table. 

We generally expect to fund all future pension contributions with cash flows from operating activities. Our international pension plans are generally funded in accordance with local laws and income tax regulations. 

As of December 31, 2015, the projected benefit obligation of the U.S. qualified pension plans was $6,405 million, and the fair value of plan assets was $5,628 million. The projected benefit obligation of all pension plans other than the U.S. qualified pension plans was $2,754 million, and the fair value of all other pension plan assets was $2,061 million. The majority of this underfunding is attributable to an international pension plan for certain non-U.S. employees that is unfunded due to tax law restrictions, as well as certain unfunded U.S. nonqualified pension plans. These U.S. nonqualified pension plans provide, for certain associates, benefits that are not permitted to be funded through a qualified plan because of limits imposed by the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. The expected benefit payments for these unfunded pension plans are not included in the table above. However, we anticipate annual benefit payments for these unfunded pension plans to be $72 million in 2016 and remain near that level through 2031, decreasing annually thereafter. Refer to Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

The Company expects to contribute an additional $512 million to our global pension plans, the majority of which will be allocated to our U.S. plans. Refer to Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We did not include our estimated contributions to our various plans in the table above. 

In general, we are self-insured for large portions of many different types of claims; however, we do use commercial insurance above our self-insured retentions to reduce the Company's risk of catastrophic loss. Our reserves for the Company's self-insured losses are estimated through actuarial procedures of the insurance industry and by using industry assumptions, adjusted for our specific expectations based on our claim history. As of December 31, 2015, our self-insurance reserves totaled $560 million. Refer to Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We did not include estimated payments related to our self-insurance reserves in the table above. 

Deferred income tax liabilities as of December 31, 2015 were $5,434 million. Refer to Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. This amount is not included in the total contractual obligations table because we believe that presentation would not be meaningful. Deferred income tax liabilities are calculated based on temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their respective book bases, which will result in taxable amounts in future years when the liabilities are settled at their reported financial statement amounts. The results of these calculations do not have a direct connection with the amount of cash taxes to be paid in any future periods. As a result, scheduling deferred income tax liabilities as payments due by period could be misleading, because this scheduling would not relate to liquidity needs. 

Our international operations are subject to certain opportunities and risks, including currency fluctuations and governmental actions. We closely monitor our operations in each country and seek to adopt appropriate strategies that are responsive to changing economic and political environments, and to fluctuations in foreign currencies. 

In 2015, we used 72 functional currencies. Due to the geographic diversity of our operations, weakness in some of these currencies might be offset by strength in others. 

These percentages do not include the effects of our hedging activities and, therefore, do not reflect the actual impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on our operating results. Our foreign currency management program is designed to mitigate, over time, a portion of the impact of exchange rate changes on our net income and earnings per share. 

The total currency impacts on net operating revenues, including the effect of our hedging activities, were decreases of 7 percent and 2 percent in 2015 and 2014, respectively. The total currency impacts on income before income taxes, including the effect of our hedging activities, were decreases of 6 percent in 2015 and 9 percent in 2014. 

Foreign currency exchange gains and losses are primarily the result of the remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities from certain currencies into functional currencies. The effects of the remeasurement of these assets and liabilities are partially offset by the impact of our economic hedging program for certain exposures on our consolidated balance sheets. Refer to Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Foreign currency exchange gains and losses are included as a component of other income (loss) net in our consolidated financial statements. Refer to the heading "Operations Review Other Income (Loss) Net" above. The Company recorded foreign currency exchange gains of $149 million in 2015 and foreign currency losses of $569 million and $162 million in 2014 and 2013, respectively. 

A hyperinflationary economy is one that has cumulative inflation of 100 percent or more over a three-year period. In accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, local subsidiaries in hyperinflationary economies are required to use the U.S. dollar as their functional currency and remeasure the monetary assets and liabilities not denominated in U.S. dollars using the rate applicable to conversion of a currency for purposes of dividend remittances. All exchange gains and losses resulting from remeasurement are recognized currently in income. 

Venezuela has been designated as a hyperinflationary economy. In February 2013, the Venezuelan government devalued its currency to an official rate of exchange ("official rate") of 6.3 bolivars per U.S. dollar. At that time, the Company remeasured the net monetary assets of our Venezuelan subsidiary at the official rate. As a result of the devaluation, we recognized a loss of $140 million from remeasurement in the line   other income (loss)  net in our consolidated statement of income. 

Beginning in the first quarter of 2014, the Venezuelan government recognized three legal exchange rates to convert bolivars to the U.S. dollar: ( 1 ) the official rate of 6.3 bolivars per U.S. dollar; ( 2 ) SICAD 1, which was available to foreign investments and designated industry sectors to exchange a limited volume of bolivars for U.S. dollars using a bid rate established at weekly auctions; and ( 3 ) SICAD 2, which applied to transactions that did not qualify for either the official rate or SICAD 1. As of March 28, 2014, the three legal exchange rates were 6.3 (official rate), 10.8 (SICAD 1 ) and 50.9 (SICAD 2 ). We determined that the SICAD 1 rate was the most appropriate rate to use for remeasurement given our circumstances and estimates of the applicable rate at which future transactions could be settled, including the payment of dividends. Therefore, as of March 28, 2014, we remeasured the net monetary assets of our Venezuelan subsidiary using an exchange rate of 10.8 bolivars per U.S. dollar, resulting in a charge of $226 million recorded in the line   other income (loss)  net in our consolidated statement of income. 

In December 2014, due to the continued lack of liquidity and increasing economic uncertainty, the Company reevaluated the rate that should be used to remeasure the monetary assets and liabilities of our Venezuelan subsidiary. As of December 31, 2014, we determined that the SICAD 2 rate of 50 bolivars per U.S. dollar was the most appropriate legally available rate and remeasured the net monetary assets of our Venezuelan subsidiary, resulting in a charge of $146 million recorded in the line   other income (loss)  net in our consolidated statement of income. 

In February 2015, the Venezuelan government merged SICAD 1 and SICAD 2 into a single mechanism called SICAD and introduced a new open market exchange rate system, SIMADI. As a result, management determined that the SIMADI rate was the most appropriate legally available rate and remeasured the net monetary assets of our Venezuelan subsidiary, resulting in a charge of $27 million recorded in the line   other income (loss)  net in our consolidated statement of income. 

In addition to the foreign currency exchange exposure related to our Venezuelan subsidiary's net monetary assets, we also sell concentrate to our bottling partner in Venezuela from outside the country. These sales are denominated in U.S. dollars. During the years ended December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, as a result of the continued lack of liquidity and our revised assessment of the U.S. dollar value we expect to realize upon the conversion of Venezuelan bolivars into U.S. dollars by our bottling partner to pay our concentrate sales receivables, we recorded write-downs of $56 million and $296 million, respectively, recorded in the line   other operating charges in our consolidated statements of income. 

We also have certain U.S. dollar denominated intangible assets associated with products sold in Venezuela. As a result of the Company's revised expectations regarding the convertibility of the local currency, we recognized impairment charges of $55 million and $18 million, respectively, during the years ended December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014. These charges were recorded in the line   other operating charges in our consolidated statements of income. 

During the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company continued to use the SIMADI rate to remeasure the net monetary assets of our Venezuelan subsidiary. As of December 31, 2015, the combined value of the net monetary assets of our Venezuelan subsidiary, the receivables from our bottling partner in Venezuela and the intangible assets associated with products sold in Venezuela was $100 million. Included in this combined value is $15 million of cash and cash equivalents. Despite the additional currency conversion mechanisms, the Company's ability to pay dividends from Venezuela is still restricted due to the low volume of U.S. dollars available for conversion. 

In February 2016, the Venezuelan government devalued its currency and changed its official and most preferential exchange rate, which will continue to be used for purchases of certain essential goods, to 10 bolivars per U.S. dollar from 6.3. The Venezuelan government announced it will reduce its three-tier system of exchange rates to two tiers by eliminating the SICAD rate. Additionally, the government announced that the SIMADI rate will be allowed to float freely beginning at a rate of 203 bolivars per U.S. dollar. As a result, the Company expects to continue to record losses on foreign currency exchange, may incur additional write-downs of receivables or impairment charges and will continue to record our proportionate share of any charges recorded by our equity method investee that has operations in Venezuela. 

Inflation affects the way we operate in many markets around the world. In general, we believe that, over time, we will be able to increase prices to counteract the majority of the inflationary effects of increasing costs and to generate sufficient cash flows to maintain our productive capability. 

The increases (decreases) in the individual line  s in the table above are primarily attributable to North America refranchising and the Company's German bottling operations being classified as held for sale. Refer to Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

Equity method investments increased primarily due to our investment in Monster and a bottling partner in Indonesia, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Refer to Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

Trademarks with indefinite lives decreased primarily due to the sale of our energy brands and the discontinuation of the energy products in the glacau portfolio as a result of the Monster Transaction. Refer to Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

Long-term debt increased primarily due to the issuances of Swiss franc-denominated, euro-denominated and U.S. dollar-denominated debt, partially offset by the early extinguishment of debt during the year ended December 31, 2015. Refer to Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.