The following provides a narrative discussion and analysis of Trustmarks financial condition and results of operations. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the supplemental financial data included in Part II.   8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this report. 

Trustmark continued to achieve solid financial results with total revenues of $139.1 million and $564.9 million for the three months and year ended December 31, 2015, respectively. Trustmark continued to maintain and expand customer relationships across its lines of business as reflected by growth in the LHFI portfolio, which increased $641.9 million, or 10.0%, during 2015 primarily within the Alabama, Texas, Tennessee and Mississippi market regions, as well as growth in insurance commissions and mortgage loan production volumes. Credit quality remained strong and continued to be an important contributor to Trustmarks financial success. Nonperforming assets declined 8.7% during the fourth quarter of 2015 and 22.9% for the full year 2015.Net interest income excluding acquired loans increased 3.7% during 2015.Trustmarks capital position remained solid, with Trustmark and TNB continuing to meet regulatory well-capitalized standards, reflecting the consistent profitability of its diversified financial services businesses. Trustmark also continued the realignment of its retail delivery channels to enhance productivity and efficiency as well as promote additional revenue growth. 

Trustmark is committed to investments to support profitable revenue growth as well as reengineering and efficiency opportunities to enhance shareholder value. Trustmarks Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.23 per share. The dividend is payable March 15, 2016, to shareholders of record on March 1, 2016. 

Trustmark reported net income of $27.9 million, or basic and diluted earnings per share (EPS) of $0.41, in the fourth quarter of 2015, compared to $28.1 million, or basic and diluted EPS of $0.42, in the fourth quarter of 2014.The slight decline in net income when the fourth quarter of 2015 is compared to the same time period in 2014 was principally the result of an increase in the provision for loan losses, LHFI and a decline in total revenue, which is defined as net interest income plus noninterest income, which was mostly offset by a decrease in noninterest expense. Trustmarks performance during the quarter ended December 31, 2015, produced a return on average tangible equity of 10.61%, a return on average assets of 0.88%, an average equity to average assets ratio of 11.83% and a dividend payout ratio of 56.1%, compared to a return on average tangible equity of 11.40%, a return on average assets of 0.92%, an average equity to average assets ratio of 11.73% and a dividend payout ratio of 54.8% during the quarter ended December 31, 2014. 

Noninterest expense for the fourth quarter of 2015 decreased $5.8 million, or 5.6%, when compared to the same time period in 2014, principally due to decreases in ORE/foreclosure expense and other expense. The decrease in ORE/foreclosure expense was primarily the result of a decline in the provision for other real estate write-downs, an increase in the net gain on sale of other real estate and a decrease in other real estate tax expense. The decrease in other expense was primarily due to declines in other miscellaneous expenses principally resulting from a legal reserve recorded during 2014 and decreases in customer related fraud losses and charitable contributions. 

For the year ended December 31, 2015, Trustmark reported net income of $116.0 million, or basic and diluted EPS of $1.72 and $1.71, respectively, compared to $123.6 million, or basic and diluted EPS of $1.83, for the year ended December 31, 2014 and $117.1 million, or basic and diluted EPS of $1.75, for the year ended December 31, 2013.The decline in net income when 2015 is compared to 2014 was principally the result of a decline in total revenue partially offset by a decrease in noninterest expense. Trustmarks performance for the year ended December 31, 2015, produced a return on average tangible equity of 11.36%, a return on average assets of 0.95% and a dividend payout ratio of 53.5%, compared to a return on average tangible equity of 12.97%, a return on average assets of 1.03% and a dividend payout ratio of 50.3% for the year ended December 31, 2014 and a return on average tangible equity of 13.09%, a return on average assets of 1.02% and a dividend payout ratio of 52.6% for the year ended December 31, 2013.Trustmarks average equity to average assets ratio was 11.90%, 11.63% and 11.60% for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 

Revenue totaled $564.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to $578.5 million and $562.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Revenue for 2015 decreased $13.6 million, or 2.3%, compared to 2014 principally due to a decrease in interest and fees on acquired loans, which was partially offset by an increase in interest and fees on LHFS and LHFI and a decrease in interest expense on deposits. Interest and fees on acquired loans decreased $25.6 million, or 33.3%, when 2015 is compared to 2014, primarily due to a $18.1 million decline in accretion income and a $5.8 million decline in recoveries on acquired loans as acquired loans have continued to pay down. Interest and fees on LHFS and LHFI increased $10.9 million, or 4.1%, for the year, primarily due to the $641.9 million increase in the LHFI portfolio. Interest expense on deposits decreased $2.7 million, or 17.8%, during 2015 principally due to the decline in interest-bearing deposits. Interest-bearing deposits totaled $6.590 billion at December 31, 2015, a decrease of $360.2 million, or 5.2%, when compared to December 31, 2014.Total noninterest income for 2015 remained stable when compared to 2014, as increases in mortgage banking, net and insurance commissions were offset by declines in all other categories of noninterest income. Mortgage banking, net increased $5.4 million, or 21.8%, during 2015 principally due to increases in gain on sales of loans, net. Insurance commissions increased $3.0 million, or 8.8%, during the year primarily due to growth in the commercial property and casualty line of business. Bank card and other fees for 2015 declined $4.7 million, or 14.2%, when compared to 2014 principally due to the decline in interchange income. 

Noninterest expense for 2015 declined $7.3 million, or 1.8%, when compared to 2014 as declines in ORE/foreclosure expense, other expense and net occupancy-premises were partially offset by an increase in salaries and employee benefits. ORE/Foreclosure expense for the year declined $6.4 million, or 56.7%, principally due to declines in the provision for other real estate write-downs and other real estate carrying costs. Other expense declined $4.7 million, or 8.8%, during the year primarily due to decreases in other miscellaneous expense and the amortization of the core deposit intangible asset. 

Salaries and employee benefits increased $3.5 million, or 1.5%, during the year primarily due to an increase in commission expense as a result of expanded mortgage and insurance production, an increase in expenses related to Trustmarks qualified defined benefit pension plan, and a net gain recorded during 2014 related to the termination and distribution of the BancTrust Pension Plan, which were partially offset by a decrease in general incentives. Please see the section captioned Results of Operations for a more complete overview of Trustmarks financial performance for 2015. 

At December 31, 2015, nonperforming assets, excluding acquired loans and covered other real estate, totaled $132.5 million, a decrease of $39.4 million, or 22.9%, compared to December 31, 2014 due to declines in both nonaccrual LHFI and other real estate, excluding covered other real estate. Total nonaccrual LHFI were $55.3 million at December 31, 2015, representing a decrease of $24.0 million, or 30.3%, relative to December 31, 2014 principally due to substandard credits in Trustmarks Mississippi, Florida and Texas market regions that were paid off, charged off, foreclosed or paid down partially offset by LHFI migrating to nonaccrual status during 2015.The percentage of loans, excluding acquired loans, that are 30 days or more past due and nonaccrual LHFI decreased in 2015 to 1.44% compared to 2.12% in 2014 and 2.01% in 2013.Other real estate, excluding covered other real estate, declined $15.3 million, or 16.6%, during 2015 primarily due to properties sold in Trustmarks Texas, Florida, Alabama and Mississippi market regions partially offset by properties foreclosed in the Alabama, Florida and Mississippi market regions. 

LHFI totaled $7.091 billion at December 31, 2015, an increase of $641.9 million, or 10.0%, compared to December 31, 2014.The increase in LHFI during 2015 was primarily due to growth in construction lending in all of Trustmarks market regions; increases in commercial real estate loans in the Alabama, Texas and Mississippi market regions and increases in state and other political subdivision loans and other loans in Trustmarks Mississippi and Texas market regions. For additional information regarding changes in LHFI and comparative balances by loan category, see the section captioned LHFI. 

Management has continued its practice of maintaining excess funding capacity to provide Trustmark with adequate liquidity for its ongoing operations. In this regard, Trustmark benefits from its strong deposit base, its highly liquid investment portfolio and its access to funding from a variety of external funding sources such as upstream federal funds lines, FHLB advances and, on a limited basis, brokered deposits. 

Total deposits were $9.588 billion at December 31, 2015, a decrease of $110.1 million, or 1.1% compared to December 31, 2014.During 2015, noninterest-bearing deposits increased $250.1 million, or 9.1%, while interest-bearing deposits declined $360.2 million, or 5.2%, primarily due to declines in public interest checking accounts and certificates of deposits. Other short-term borrowings totaled $853.7 million at December 31, 2015, a decrease of $15.0 million, or 1.7%, when compared with $868.6 million at December 31, 2014.The decrease in other short-term borrowings was principally due to $6.8 million of outstanding short-term FHLB advances with the FHLB of Atlanta which matured during 2015 and a $5.0 million decline in Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA) loans eligible for repurchase. 

Trustmarks consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP and follow general practices within the financial services industry. Application of these accounting principles requires Management to make estimates, assumptions and judgments that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. These estimates, assumptions and judgments are based on information available as of the date of the consolidated financial statements; accordingly, as this information changes, actual financial results could differ from those estimates. 

Certain policies inherently have a greater reliance on the use of estimates, assumptions and judgments and, as such, have a greater possibility of producing results that could be materially different than originally reported. These critical accounting policies are described below. 

For additional information regarding the accounting policies discussed below, please see Note 1  Significant Accounting Policies set forth in Part II.   8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this report. 

The allowance for loan losses, LHFI is established through provisions for estimated loan losses charged against net income. The allowance reflects Managements best estimate of the probable loan losses related to specifically identified LHFI as well as probable incurred loan losses in the remaining loan portfolio and requires considerable judgment. The allowance is based upon Managements current judgments and the credit quality of the loan portfolio, including all internal and external factors that impact loan collectibility. Accordingly, the allowance is based upon both past events and current economic conditions. 

A significant shift in one or more factors included in the allowance for loan loss methodology could result in a material change to Trustmarks allowance for loan losses, LHFI.For example, if there were changes in one or more of the estimates, assumptions or judgments used as they relate to a portfolio of commercial LHFI, Trustmark could find that it needs to increase the level of future provisions for possible loan losses with respect to that portfolio. Additionally, credit deterioration of specific borrowers due to changes in these factors could cause the internally assigned risk rating to shift to a more severe category. As a result, Trustmark could find that it needs to increase the level of future provisions for possible loan losses with respect to these LHFI.Given the nature of many of these estimates, assumptions and judgments, it is not possible to provide meaningful estimates of the impact of any such potential shifts. 

During 2015, Trustmark made revisions to both the quantitative and qualitative portions of the allowance for loan loss methodology for commercial and consumer LHFI.For a complete description of the revisions made to Trustmarks allowance for loan loss methodology during 2015, please see Note 5  LHFI and Allowance for Loan Losses, LHFI included in Part II.   8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this report. 

Acquired loans are recorded at their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date. Fair value of acquired loans is determined using a discounted cash flow model based on assumptions regarding the amount and timing of principal and interest payments, estimated prepayments, estimated default rates, estimated loss severity in the event of defaults, and current market rates. Estimated credit losses are included in the determination of fair value; therefore, an allowance for loan losses is not recorded on the acquisition date. 

The nonaccretable difference represents an estimate of the loss exposure of principal and interest related to the acquired impaired loan portfolio, and such amount is subject to change over time based on the performance of such loans. The excess of undiscounted expected cash flows at acquisition over the initial fair value of acquired impaired loans is referred to as the accretable yield and is recorded as interest income over the estimated life of the loans using the effective yield method if the timing and amount of the future cash flows is reasonably estimable. Under the effective yield method, the accretable yield is recorded as an accretion of interest income over the life of the loan. 

As required by FASB ASC Topic 310-30, Trustmark periodically re-estimates the expected cash flows to be collected over the life of the acquired impaired loans. If, based on current information and events, it is probable that Trustmark will be unable to collect all cash flows expected at acquisition plus additional cash flows expected to be collected arising from changes in estimate after acquisition, the acquired loans are considered impaired. The decrease in the expected cash flows reduces the carrying value of the acquired impaired loans as well as the accretable yield and results in a charge to income through the provision for loan losses, acquired loans, and the establishment of an allowance for loan losses, acquired loans. If, based on current information and events, it is probable that there is a significant increase in the cash flows previously expected to be collected or if actual cash flows are significantly greater than cash flows previously expected, Trustmark will reduce any remaining allowance for loan losses, acquired loans established on the acquired impaired loans for the increase in the present value of cash flows expected to be collected. The increase in the expected cash flows for the acquired impaired loans over those originally estimated at acquisition increases the carrying value of the acquired impaired loans as well as the accretable yield. 

Trustmark has elected to account for amounts receivable under a loss-share agreement as an indemnification asset in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 805, Business Combinations. A FDIC indemnification asset is initially recorded at fair value, based on the discounted value of expected future cash flows under the loss-share agreement. The difference between the present value at the acquisition date and the undiscounted cash flows Trustmark expects to collect from the FDIC is accreted into noninterest income over the life of the FDIC indemnification asset. 

The FDIC indemnification asset is revalued concurrent with the loan re-estimation and adjusted for any changes in expected cash flows based on recent performance and expectations for future performance of covered loans and covered other real estate. These adjustments are measured on the same basis as the related covered loans and covered other real estate. Increases in the cash flows of the covered loans and covered other real estate over those expected reduce the FDIC indemnification asset, and decreases in the cash flows of the covered loans and covered other real estate under those expected increase the FDIC indemnification asset. Increases and decreases to the FDIC indemnification asset are recorded as adjustments to noninterest income. 

Trustmark recognizes as assets the rights to service mortgage loans based on the estimated fair value of the MSR when loans are sold and the associated servicing rights are retained. Trustmark has elected to account for the MSR at fair value. 

The fair value of the MSR is determined using a valuation model administered by a third party that calculates the present value of estimated future net servicing income. The model incorporates assumptions that market participants use in estimating future net servicing income, including estimates of prepayment speeds, discount rate, default rates, cost to service (including delinquency and foreclosure costs), escrow account earnings, contractual servicing fee income and other ancillary income such as late fees. Management reviews all significant assumptions quarterly. Mortgage loan prepayment speeds, a key assumption in the model, is the annual rate at which borrowers are forecasted to repay their mortgage loan principal. The discount rate used to determine the present value of estimated future net servicing income, another key assumption in the model, is an estimate of the required rate of return investors in the market would require for an asset with similar risk. Both assumptions can, and generally will, change as market conditions and interest rates change. 

By way of example, an increase in either the prepayment speed or discount rate assumption will result in a decrease in the fair value of the MSR, while a decrease in either assumption will result in an increase in the fair value of the MSR.In recent years, there have been significant market-driven fluctuations in loan prepayment speeds and discount rates. These fluctuations can be rapid and may continue to be significant. Therefore, estimating prepayment speed and/or discount rates within ranges that market participants would use in determining the fair value of the MSR requires significant management judgment. 

At December 31, 2015, the MSR fair value was approximately $74.0 million. The impact on the MSR fair value of a 10% adverse change in prepayment speeds or a 100 basis point increase in discount rates at December 31, 2015, would be a decline in fair value of approximately $2.4 million and $2.6 million, respectively. Changes of equal magnitude in the opposite direction would produce similar increases in fair value in the respective amounts. 

Trustmark records all assets and liabilities acquired in purchase acquisitions, including goodwill and other intangible assets, at fair value as required by FASB ASC Topic 805.The carrying amount of goodwill at December 31, 2015 totaled $321.1 million for the General Banking Division and $45.0 million for the Insurance Division, a consolidated total of $366.2 million. Trustmarks goodwill is not amortized but is subject to annual tests for impairment or more often if events or circumstances indicate it may be impaired. Trustmarks identifiable intangible assets, which totaled $27.5 million at December 31, 2015, are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are subject to impairment tests if events or circumstances indicate a possible inability to realize the carrying amount. 

The initial recording and subsequent impairment testing of goodwill requires subjective judgments concerning estimates of the fair value of the acquired assets. The goodwill impairment test is performed in two phases. The first step compares the fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is considered not impaired; however, if the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an additional procedure must be performed. That additional procedure, or a second step, compares the implied fair value of the reporting units goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. An impairment loss would be recorded to the extent that the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value. Trustmark performed an annual impairment test of goodwill for reporting units contained in both the General Banking and Insurance Divisions as of October 1, 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively, which indicated that no impairment charge was required. The impairment test for the General Banking Division utilized valuations based on comparable deal values for financial institutions while the test for the Insurance Division utilizes varying valuation scenarios for the multiple of earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) method based on recent acquisition activity. Based on this analysis, Trustmark concluded that no impairment charge was required. Significant changes in future profitability and value of our reporting units could affect Trustmarks impairment evaluation. 

The carrying amount of Trustmarks identifiable intangible assets subject to amortization is not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition. That assessment shall be based on the carrying amount of the intangible assets subject to amortization at the date it is tested for recoverability. Intangible assets subject to amortization shall be tested for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that its carrying amount may not be recoverable. 

Fair value may be determined using market prices, comparison to similar assets, market multiples and other determinants. Factors that may significantly affect the estimates include, among others, competitive forces, customer behavior and attrition, changes in revenue growth trends and specific industry or market sector conditions. Other key judgments in accounting for intangibles include determining the useful life of the particular asset and classifying assets as either goodwill (which does not require amortization) or identifiable intangible assets (which does require amortization). 

Other real estate includes assets that have been acquired in satisfaction of debt through foreclosure and is recorded at the lower of cost or estimated fair value less the estimated cost of disposition. Fair value is based on independent appraisals and other relevant factors. Valuation adjustments required at foreclosure are charged to the allowance for loan losses. Other real estate is revalued on an annual basis or more often if market conditions necessitate. Subsequent to foreclosure, losses on the periodic revaluation of the property are charged against a reserve specific to other real estate or to noninterest expense in ORE/Foreclosure expense if a reserve does not exist. Significant judgments and complex estimates are required in estimating the fair value of other real estate, and the period of time within which such estimates can be considered current is significantly shortened during periods of market volatility, as experienced in recent years. As a result, the net proceeds realized from sales transactions could differ significantly from appraisals, comparable sales, and other estimates used to determine the fair value of other real estate. 

All other real estate acquired in a FDIC-assisted acquisition that is subject to a FDIC loss-share agreement is referred to as covered other real estate and reported separately in Trustmarks consolidated balance sheets. Covered other real estate is reported exclusive of expected reimbursement cash flows from the FDIC.Foreclosed covered loan collateral is transferred into covered other real estate at the collaterals net realizable value. 

Covered other real estate is initially recorded at its estimated fair value on the acquisition date based on an independent appraisal less estimated selling costs. Any subsequent valuation adjustments due to declines in fair value are charged to noninterest expense in ORE/Foreclosure expense and are mostly offset by other noninterest income representing the corresponding increase to the FDIC indemnification asset for the offsetting loss reimbursement amount. Any recoveries of previous valuation adjustments are credited to ORE/Foreclosure expense with a corresponding charge to other noninterest income for the portion of the recovery that is due to the FDIC. 

Trustmarks plan assets, projected benefit liabilities and pension cost are determined utilizing actuarially-determined present value calculations. The valuation of the projected benefit obligation and net periodic pension expense for Trustmarks Capital Accumulation Plan and Supplemental Retirement Plans requires Management to make estimates regarding the amount and timing of expected cash outflows. Several variables affect these calculations, including (i) size and characteristics of the associate population, (ii) discount rate, (iii) expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and (iv) recognition of actual returns on plan assets. Below is a brief description of the variables that introduce material uncertainty into Managements estimates and the effect they have on estimated pension cost. 

Population and Characteristics of Associates. Pension cost is directly related to the number of associates covered by the plan and characteristics such as salary, age, years of service and benefit terms. In an effort to control expenses, Trustmarks Board of Directors voted to freeze Capital Accumulation Plan benefits effective May 15, 2009.Associates have not earned additional benefits, except for interest as required by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) regulations, since the plan was frozen. Associates will retain their previously earned pension benefits. At December 31, 2015, the pension plan census totaled 2,189 current and former associates. 

The discount rate utilized in determining the present value of the future benefit obligation is currently 3.86% (as compared to 3.57% at December 31, 2014).The discount rate for the plan is determined by matching the expected cash flows of the plan to a yield curve based on long term, high quality fixed income debt instruments available as of the measurement date (December 31, 2015).The discount rate is reset annually on the measurement date to reflect current economic conditions. If Trustmark assumes a 1.00% increase or decrease in the discount rate for Trustmarks qualified defined benefit pension plan and kept all other assumptions constant, the benefit cost associated with the plan would decrease or increase by approximately $1.5 million and $1.7 million, respectively. 

Expected Long-Term Rate of Return on Plan Assets. Based on historical experience and market projection of the target asset allocation set forth in the investment policy for the Capital Accumulation Plan, the pre-tax expected rate of return on the plan assets used in 2015 was 7.00%, versus 7.50% in 2014.This expected rate of return is dependent upon the asset allocation decisions made with respect to plan assets. Annual differences, if any, between expected and actual return are included in the unrecognized net actuarial gain or loss amount. Trustmark generally amortizes any cumulative unrecognized net actuarial gain or loss in excess of 10% of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or the fair value of the plan assets. If Trustmark assumes a 1.00% increase or decrease in the expected long-term rate of return for the Capital Accumulation Plan, holding all other actuarial assumptions constant, the pension cost would decrease or increase by approximately $742 thousand. 

Recognition of Actual Asset Returns. Trustmark utilizes the provisions of FASB ASC Topic 715, Compensation  Retirement Benefits, which allow for the use of asset values that smoothes investment gains and losses over a period of up to five years. This could partially mitigate the impact of short-term gains or losses on reported net income. 

Other Actuarial Assumptions. To estimate the projected benefit obligation, actuarial assumptions are required to be made by Management, including mortality rate, retirement rate, disability rate and the rate of compensation increases. For 2015, a new mortality table (RP-2014) was applied to calculate the benefit cost. The new table reflects longer life expectancies and resulted in an increase in benefit cost of approximately $1.7 million. 

Trustmark estimates contingent liabilities based on Managements evaluation of the probability of outcomes and their ability to estimate the range of exposure. As stated in FASB ASC Topic 450, Contingencies, a liability is contingent if the amount is not presently known but may become known in the future as a result of the occurrence of some uncertain future event. Accounting standards require that a liability be recorded if Management determines that it is probable that a loss has occurred, and the loss can be reasonably estimated. It is implicit in this standard that it must be probable that the loss will be confirmed by some future event. As part of the estimation process, Management is required to make assumptions about matters that are, by their nature, highly uncertain. The assessment of contingent liabilities, including legal contingencies and income tax liabilities, involves the use of critical estimates, assumptions and judgments. Managements estimates are based on their belief that future events will validate the current assumptions regarding the ultimate outcome of these exposures. However, there can be no assurance that future events, such as court decisions or IRS positions, will not differ from Managements assessments. Whenever practicable, Management consults with outside experts (attorneys, consultants, claims administrators, etc.) to assist with the gathering and evaluation of information related to contingent liabilities. 

For information regarding legislation and regulation applicable to Trustmark, see the section captioned Supervision and Regulation included in Part I.   1. Business  of this report. 

In addition to capital ratios defined by GAAP and banking regulators, Trustmark utilizes various tangible common equity measures when evaluating capital utilization and adequacy. Tangible common equity, as defined by Trustmark, represents common equity less goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. 

Trustmark believes these measures are important because they reflect the level of capital available to withstand unexpected market conditions. Additionally, presentation of these measures allows readers to compare certain aspects of Trustmarks capitalization to other organizations. These ratios differ from capital measures defined by banking regulators principally in that the numerator excludes shareholders equity associated with preferred securities, the nature and extent of which varies across organizations. These calculations are intended to complement the capital ratios defined by GAAP and banking regulators. Because GAAP does not include these capital ratio measures, Trustmark believes there are no comparable GAAP financial measures to these tangible common equity ratios. Despite the importance of these measures to Trustmark, there are no standardized definitions for them and, as a result, Trustmarks calculations may not be comparable with other organizations. Also, there may be limits in the usefulness of these measures to investors. As a result, Trustmark encourages readers to consider its audited consolidated financial statements and the notes related thereto in their entirety and not to rely on any single financial measure. 

Trustmark discloses certain non-GAAP financial measures, including net income adjusted for significant non-routine transactions, because Management uses these measures for business planning purposes, including to manage Trustmarks business against internal projected results of operations and to measure Trustmarks performance. Trustmark views net income adjusted for significant non-routine transactions as a measure of our core operating business, which excludes the impact of the  s detailed below, as these  s are generally not operational in nature. This non-GAAP measure also provides another basis for comparing period-to-period results as presented in the accompanying selected financial data table and the audited consolidated financial statements by excluding potential differences caused by non-operational and unusual or non-recurring  s. Readers are cautioned that these adjustments are not permitted under GAAP.Trustmark encourages readers to consider its audited consolidated financial statements and the notes related thereto, included in Part II.   8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this report, in their entirety, and not to rely on any single financial measure. 

Net interest income is the principal component of Trustmarks income stream and represents the difference, or spread, between interest and fee income generated from earning assets and the interest expense paid on deposits and borrowed funds. Fluctuations in interest rates, as well as volume and mix changes in earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, can materially impact net interest income. The net interest margin is computed by dividing fully taxable equivalent (FTE) net interest income by average interest-earning assets and measures how effectively Trustmark utilizes its interest-earning assets in relationship to the interest cost of funding them. The accompanying Yield/Rate Analysis Table shows the average balances for all assets and liabilities of Trustmark and the interest income or expense associated with earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. The yields and rates have been computed based upon interest income and expense adjusted to a FTE basis using a 35% federal marginal tax rate for all periods shown. Loans on nonaccrual have been included in the average loan balances, and interest collected prior to these loans having been placed on nonaccrual has been included in interest income. Loan fees included in interest associated with the average loan balances are immaterial. 

During 2015, interest and fees on LHFS and LHFI-FTE increased $11.8 million, or 4.3%, when compared to 2014, due to growth in LHFI, while the yield on loans (LHFS and LHFI) fell 15 basis points to 4.28% due to downward repricing of LHFI due to the current interest rate environment and related competitive pressures. During 2015, interest and fees on acquired loans decreased $25.6 million, or 33.3%, compared to 2014, due to declines in accretion income as acquired loans continue to pay-down as well as a decline in recoveries on loan pay-offs of loans acquired in connection with the February 2013 merger with BancTrust. As a result, the yield on acquired loans decreased to 11.06% compared to 11.52% during 2014.As a result of these factors, interest income-FTE decreased $14.0 million, or 3.2%, during 2015 compared to 2014.The impact of these changes is also illustrated by the decline in the yield on total earning assets, which fell from 4.24% for 2014 to 3.97% for 2015, a decrease of 27 basis points. 

Average interest-bearing liabilities for 2015 totaled $7.890 billion compared to $7.785 billion for 2014, an increase of $104.6 million, or 1.3%.Average interest-bearing deposits for 2015 decreased $211.3 million, or 3.0%, when compared to 2014, principally due to declines in certificates of deposits, reflecting Trustmarks continued efforts to reduce high-cost deposit balances and customers continued movement away from longer-term commitments as a result of the low interest rate environment. The combination of average federal funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase agreements and other borrowings increased $315.8 million, or 43.4%, when 2015 is compared to 2014, which was primarily attributable to increased balances of short-term FHLB advances obtained from the FHLB of Dallas as well as federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements as Trustmark chose to utilize these less costly sources of funding. Total interest expense during 2015 decreased $1.1 million, or 5.0%, when compared with 2014, principally due to the $2.7 million, or 17.8%, decrease in interest expense on deposit accounts as a result of the decline in interest-bearing deposits. As a result of these factors, the overall yield on interest-bearing liabilities declined 2 basis points to 0.26% when 2015 is compared with 2014. 

Net interest income-FTE during 2014 increased $17.8 million, or 4.4%, when compared with 2013.The net interest margin increased 2 basis points to 4.03% during 2014 when compared with 2013.The increase in the net interest margin was primarily a result of $2.7 million of yield maintenance payments on prepaid securities received during the year, which are included in net interest income, and lower deposit and short-term borrowing costs, which were partially offset by a downward repricing of LHFI in response to increased competitive pricing pressures. The net interest margin excluding acquired loans, which equals the reported net interest income-FTE excluding interest and fees on acquired loans, as a percentage of average earning assets excluding average acquired loans, for 2014 was 3.52%, a decrease of 3 basis points when compared to 2013. 

Average interest-earning assets for 2014 were $10.445 billion compared to $10.052 billion for 2013, an increase of $393.2 million, or 3.9%.The growth in average earning assets was primarily due to an increase in average loans (LHFS and LHFI) of $472.8 million, or 8.2%, and average securities-taxable of $98.1 million, or 3.1%, during 2014.The increase in average total loans (LHFS and LHFI) was primarily attributable to net increases in all categories of the LHFI portfolio. See the section captioned LHFI elsewhere in this discussion for further analysis of the changes in the LHFI portfolio. The increase in average securities-taxable was primarily attributable to purchases of GSE guaranteed securities, partially offset by maturities and pay-downs of the loans underlying these securities, as well as inclusion of the securities acquired in the BancTrust merger for the entire twelve months of 2014. 

During 2014, interest on securities-taxable increased $7.3 million, or 10.1%, as the yield on taxable securities increased 15 basis points to 2.42% when compared with 2013 due to re-investments in higher yielding securities and $2.7 million of yield maintenance payments on prepaid securities. During 2014, interest and fees on LHFS and LHFI-FTE increased $6.2 million, or 2.3%, while the yield on loans (LHFS and LHFI) fell 25 basis points to 4.43% when compared to 2013 due to downward repricing of LHFI due to the current interest rate environment and increased competitive pressures. 

Average interest-bearing liabilities for 2014 totaled $7.785 billion compared to $7.575 billion for 2013, an increase of $210.7 million, or 2.8%.During 2014, average interest-bearing deposits decreased $1.0 million as growth in savings and interest-bearing demand deposits was more than offset by declines in certificates of deposits. The combination of federal funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase agreements and other borrowings increased by $211.8 million, or 41.0%, during 2014, which was primarily attributable to increased balances of federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements as well as short-term FHLB advances obtained from the FHLB of Dallas during the second half of 2014 as Trustmark chose to utilize these less costly sources of funding. Total interest expense for 2014 decreased $4.3 million, or 16.7%, when compared with 2013, principally due to the $4.4 million, or 22.3%, decrease in interest expense on deposit accounts as a result of a reduction in rates paid on certificates of deposit. As a result of these factors, the overall yield on interest-bearing liabilities declined 6 basis points to 0.28% when 2014 is compared with 2013. 

The change in interest due to both volume and yield or rate has been allocated to change due to volume and change due to yield or rate in proportion to the absolute value of the change in each. Tax-exempt income has been adjusted to a tax equivalent basis using a tax rate of 35% for each of the three years presented. The balances of nonaccrual loans and related income recognized have been included for purposes of these computations. 

The provision for loan losses, LHFI is determined by Management as the amount necessary to adjust the allowance for loan losses, LHFI to a level, which, in Managements best estimate, is necessary to absorb probable losses within the existing loan portfolio. The provision for loan losses, LHFI reflects loan quality trends, including the levels of and trends related to nonaccrual LHFI, past due LHFI, potential problem LHFI, criticized LHFI, net charge-offs or recoveries and growth in the LHFI portfolio among other factors. Accordingly, the amount of the provision reflects the necessary increases in the allowance for loan losses, LHFI related to newly identified criticized LHFI, as well as the actions taken related to other LHFI including, among other things, any necessary increases or decreases in required allowances for specific loans or loan pools. The provision for loan losses, LHFI totaled $8.4 million for 2015, $1.2 million for 2014 and a negative $13.4 million for 2013.See the section captioned Allowance for Loan Losses, LHFI for further analysis of the provision for loan losses, LHFI. 

The provision for loan losses, acquired loans is reflected as a valuation allowance netted against the carrying value of the acquired loans accounted for under FASB ASC Topic 310-30.The decrease in the provision for loan losses, acquired loans during 2015 was principally due to an increase in recoveries of acquired loans, partially offset by increased charge-offs during 2015 compared to 2014, and changes in expectations based on the periodic re-estimations performed during the period, primarily related to loans acquired from BancTrust. The increase in the provision for loan losses, acquired loans during 2014 was primarily due to increases in the provision for loan losses, acquired loans for loans acquired from Bay Bank and Heritage, which was partially offset by declines in the provision for loan losses, acquired loans for loans acquired from BancTrust as a result of changes in expectations based on the periodic re-estimations performed during the year. 

Changes in various components of noninterest income are discussed in further detail below. For analysis of Trustmarks insurance commissions and wealth management income, please see the section captioned Results of Segment Operations. 

The decline in service charges on deposit accounts when 2015 is compared to 2014 was principally due to a $1.8 million, or 5.1%, decrease in NSF and overdraft charges on consumer deposit accounts and a $297 thousand, or 15.4%, decrease in NSF and overdraft charges on commercial demand deposit accounts, which was partially offset by a $585 thousand, or 10.1%, increase in service charges on commercial demand deposit accounts. The decline in NSF and overdraft charges on deposit accounts during 2015 was primarily the result of a decrease in the number of customer transactions that would result in an NSF or overdraft charge as customers have more availability to complete banking transactions through mobile and online banking sites as well as extended hours for making deposits at Trustmarks ATMs. 

Service charges on deposit accounts decreased when comparing 2014 with 2013, primarily due to declines in NSF and overdraft fees on consumer demand deposit accounts. The declines in the NSF and overdraft fees primarily resulted from a decrease in the number of occurrences of NSFs and overdrafts as Trustmark made enhancements to provide customers with access to information regarding pending debit card signature transactions and extended the hours customers are capable of making deposits at Trustmark ATMs. 

Bank card and other fees consist primarily of fees earned on bank card products as well as fees on various bank products and services and safe deposit box fees. The decrease in bank card and other fees for 2015 when compared to 2014 was primarily the result of declines in interchange income. 

Bank card and other fees for 2014 decreased when compared to 2013, which was primarily the result of declines in interchange income and the fair value of Trustmarks proprietary position in interest rate swaps entered into with qualified commercial borrowing customers, which was partially offset by growth in ATM transaction income. See the section captioned Derivatives for additional information related to the derivative products offered to qualified commercial borrowing customers. 

The FRB has issued rules under the EFTA, as amended by the Dodd-Frank Act, to limit interchange fees that an issuer may receive or charge for an electronic debit card transaction. See the section captioned Debit Interchange Regulation included in Part I.   1. Business  of this report. As a result of the regulations, Trustmarks noninterest income declined $11.5 million during 2015 compared to $5.4 million during 2014. 

The increase in net revenue from mortgage banking during 2015 was principally due to an increase in gain on sales of loans, net partially offset by a decline in the net positive hedge ineffectiveness. The decrease in net revenue from mortgage banking during 2014 was principally due to lower gains on secondary marketing sales, which was partially offset by the net valuation increase in the fair value of LHFS, interest rate lock commitments and forward sale contracts and growth in mortgage servicing fee income. Mortgage loan production increased $290.0 million, or 24.3%, during 2015 to total $1.482 billion, reflecting industry-wide improvements in real estate and construction activity as well as increased mortgage lending activity due to low mortgage rates. In addition, during the second quarter of 2015, Trustmark expanded its mortgage banking capabilities with the addition of ten mortgage producers in the Alabama and Florida market regions. Mortgage loan production decreased $258.4 million, or 17.8%, during 2014 to total $1.192 billion, which reflected the industry-wide decline in refinance activity following an extended low interest rate environment. Loans serviced for others totaled $5.971 billion at December 31, 2015, compared with $5.636 billion at December 31, 2014, and $5.461 billion at December 31, 2013. 

Representing a significant component of mortgage banking income is gain on the sales of loans, net. The increase in the gain on sales of loans, net during 2015 resulted from increases in the volume of loan sales and higher profit margins from secondary marketing activities. The decrease in the gain on sales of loans, net during 2014 resulted from declines in the volume of loan sales and lower profit margins from secondary marketing activities due to the tightening of interest rate spreads during the year. Loan sales increased $332.8 million during 2015 to total $1.246 billion compared to a decrease of $444.0 million during 2014 to total $913.5 million. The increase in loans sales during 2015 was due to increased mortgage lending activity and Trustmarks decision to sell the vast majority of these lower-rate, longer-term home mortgages in the secondary market, rather than replacing the run-off in its single-family loan portfolio. 

Other mortgage banking income, net includes the net valuation adjustment recognized in income in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 825, Financial Instruments, for the fair value of LHFS accounted for under the fair value option and the net valuation adjustment recognized in income in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging, for the fair value of interest rate lock commitments and forward sales contracts. Valuation adjustments are primarily the result of changes in volume and profit margins for the related instruments during the period. The decrease in other mortgage banking income, net when comparing 2015 with 2014 primarily resulted from an increase in the net valuation adjustment in the fair value of LHFS, interest rate lock commitments and forward sales contracts during the period, which was principally due to higher increases in profit margins during 2014 offset partially by higher increases in volumes during 2015.The increase in other mortgage banking income, net when comparing 2014 with 2013 primarily resulted from an increase in the net valuation adjustment in the fair value of LHFS, interest rate lock commitments and forward sales contracts during the period. For additional information regarding the LHFS accounted for under the fair value option, please see the section captioned Fair Value Option included in Note 19  Fair Value set forth in Part II.   8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this report. See the section captioned Derivatives for further discussion of the mortgage related derivative instruments. 

The decrease in other income, net during 2015 was primarily the result of a decline in other miscellaneous income due to a net loss on the sale of a former bank branch acquired in the merger with BancTrust during the first quarter of 2015, a decrease in the amount of revenues received during 2015 related to Trustmarks non-qualified deferred compensation plan and a one-time arrangement fee received during the second quarter of 2014; a decrease in the net cash surrender value related to Trustmarks supplemental employee retirement plan and the increase in the net reduction of the FDIC indemnification asset primarily due to increases in the amortization of the FDIC indemnification asset and the negative valuation adjustments for covered acquired loans, which was partially offset by the decrease in partnership amortization for tax credit purposes. The increase in other income, net during 2014 was primarily the result of an increase in the cash surrender value of bank-owned life insurance, principally due to Trustmarks $100.0 million investment in bank-owned life insurance in September 2013, and the decrease in the net reduction of the FDIC indemnification asset resulting from loan pay-offs and changes in expected cash flows and loss expectations of acquired covered loans. 

Changes in the various component of noninterest expense are discussed in further detail below. Management considers disciplined expense management a key area of focus in the support of improving shareholder value. 

The increase in salaries and employee benefits during 2014 primarily reflected salaries and employee benefits attributable to the BancTrust operations for a full twelve months, modest general merit increases, higher commissions expense resulting from improved performance in Trustmarks Insurance and Wealth Management Divisions, and increases in general performance incentives expense. These increases in salaries and employee benefits were partially offset by a decrease in Trustmarks Capital Accumulation Plan pension expense due to lower actuarially-determined rates, a decline in severance expenses due to non-routine transaction expenses from the merger with BancTrust incurred during 2013 and a decrease in commission expense resulting from declines in mortgage loan originations. Excluding the decline in pension expense due to actuarially-determined rates and the termination of the BancTrust Pension Plan and the decline in severance expenses due to non-routine transaction expenses from the merger with BancTrust, salaries and employee benefits for 2014 increased $10.3 million, or 4.6%, relative to 2013. 

The decrease in ORE/Foreclosure expense during 2015 was principally due to a decrease in the provision for other real estate write-downs as well as declines in other real estate carrying costs. The decrease in ORE/Foreclosure expense during 2014 was primarily due to the increase in the net gain on the sale of other real estate and a decrease in write-downs of other real estate, which was partially offset by an increase in the provision for other real estate write-downs. The net gain on sale of other real estate for 2015 totaled $4.0 million, compared to a net gain on the sale of other real estate for 2014 of $3.7 million and to a net loss on the sale of other real estate of $772 thousand for 2013.For additional analysis of other real estate and foreclosure expenses, please see the section captioned Nonperforming Assets, Excluding Acquired Loans and Covered Other Real Estate. 

The increase in FDIC assessment expense for 2015 and 2014 primarily resulted from the increase in Trustmarks assessment base. As required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC revised the deposit insurance assessment system to base assessments on the average total consolidated assets of insured depository institutions less the average tangible equity during the assessment period. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act requires the minimum reserve ratio for the Deposit Insurance Fund be increased from 1.15% to 1.35% of estimated insurable deposits, or the comparable percentage of the assessment base, by September 30, 2020.The FDIC must offset the effect of the increase in the minimum reserve ratio on insured depository institutions with total consolidated assets of less than $10.0 billion. With total assets greater than $10.0 billion at December 31, 2013, Trustmark lost the benefit of this offset beginning in the second quarter 2014.The change in the assessment methodology was immaterial to Trustmarks results of operations. 

The decline in other expenses during 2014 was primarily due to declines in non-routine transaction expenses on acquisition, which were incurred during 2013 as a result of the merger with BancTrust, loan expense and other miscellaneous expense. The decrease in loan expense during 2014 was primarily due to declines in other loan expense, mortgage loan putback expense and mortgage loan compensatory fees. The decrease in other miscellaneous expense during 2014 was principally due to the non-routine litigation expense related to the settlement of the NSF and overdraft litigation incurred during 2013, which was partially offset by increases in other miscellaneous expenses due primarily to increases in ATM and debit card processing expenses, sponsorships and charitable contributions and insurance expenses. 

Trustmarks operations are managed along three operating segments: General Banking Division, Wealth Management Division and Insurance Division. A description of each segment and the methodologies used to measure financial performance and financial information by reportable segment are included in Note 21  Segment Information located in Part II.   8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this report. During 2014, Trustmark revised the composition of its operating segments by moving the Private Banking group from the Wealth Management Division to the General Banking Division as a result of a change in supervision of this group for segment reporting purposes. Prior period financial information by reportable segment includes the appropriate reclassifications to conform to the current period presentation. 

Net interest income for the General Banking Division for 2015 decreased $13.1 million, or 3.2%, when compared with 2014.The decline in net interest income was mostly due to declines in interest and fees on acquired loans, which was partially offset by an increase in interest and fees on LHFS and LHFI and declines in the cost of interest-bearing deposits. Net interest income for the General Banking Division for 2014 increased $16.6 million, or 4.3%, when compared with 2013.The growth in net interest income was mostly due to increases in taxable interest on securities and interest and fees on LHFS and LHFI as well as modest declines in the cost of interest-bearing deposits. The provision for loan losses, net during 2015 totaled $11.8 million compared with $7.4 million during 2014 and a negative $7.4 million during 2013.For more information on these net interest income  s, please see the sections captioned Financial Highlights and Results of Operations. 

Noninterest income for the General Banking Division decreased $2.0 million, or 1.8%, during 2015 compared to a decrease of $6.1 million, or 5.4%, during 2014.Noninterest income for the General Banking Division represented 21.2% of total revenues for 2015, 21.0% for 2014 and 22.7% for 2013.Noninterest income for the General Banking Division includes service charges on deposit accounts; bank card and other fees; mortgage banking, net; other, net and securities gains, net. For more information on these noninterest income  s, please see the analysis included in the section captioned Noninterest Income. 

During 2015, net income for the Wealth Management Division decreased $372 thousand, or 8.8%, compared to an increase of $661 thousand, or 18.6%, during 2014.Net interest income for the Wealth Management Division declined $514 thousand, or 60.4%, during 2015 due to a decrease in the interest income earned on deposit accounts held by the Wealth Management Division. Noninterest income, which includes income related to investment management, trust and brokerage services, decreased $964 thousand, or 3.0%, during 2015, compared to an increase of $2.8 million, or 9.4% during 2014.The decrease in noninterest income for the Wealth Management Division during 2015 was primarily attributable to declines in fixed annuity income and commissions generated by the brokerage services unit and trust management fees, partially offset by growth in asset management fees and variable annuity income generated by the brokerage services unit. The increase in noninterest income for the Wealth Management Division during 2014 was primarily attributable to trust management fees on new business (principally in the personal trust group), the addition of BancTrust for a full twelve months and fixed annuity income generated by the brokerage services unit. Noninterest expense decreased $1.4 million, or 5.2%, during 2015 compared to an increase of $2.0 million, or 8.2%, during 2014.The decrease in noninterest expense for the Wealth Management Division during 2015 was principally due to a legal reserve recorded during 2014.The increase in noninterest expense for the Wealth Management Division during 2014 was primarily due to increases in salaries and employee benefits expense. The increase in salaries and benefits expense for the Wealth Management Division was primarily due to modest general merit increases, higher commission and trust incentive expense resulting from improved performance in the Wealth Management Division and the addition of BancTrust. 

Net income for the Insurance Division during 2015 increased $980 thousand, or 21.9%, compared to a decrease of $20 thousand, or 0.5%, during 2014.Noninterest income for the Insurance Division increased $3.0 million, or 8.8%, during 2015, compared to an increase of $2.6 million, or 8.5%, during 2014.The increase in insurance commissions during 2015 was due to new business commission volume primarily in commercial property and casualty and group health coverage, resulting from both a continued focus on new business and the recent addition of experienced account executives with an established book of business. The increase in noninterest income during 2014 was due to new business commission volume primarily in group health and commercial property and casualty coverage. General business activity continues to improve marginally, resulting in increases in the demand for coverage on inventories, property, equipment, general liability and workers compensation. 

Noninterest expense for the Insurance Division increased $1.5 million, or 5.5%, during 2015 and $2.6 million, or 10.8%, during 2014.The increase in noninterest expense during 2015 was primarily due to higher commissions and salaries expense resulting from improved performance in the Insurance Division and modest general merit increases and higher services and fees expense resulting from increases in professional fees and software maintenance fees. The increase in noninterest expense during 2014 was primarily due to higher commissions expense resulting from improved performance in the Insurance Division. 

During 2015, business conditions improved slightly in the markets served by FBBI.Trustmark performed an annual impairment test of the book value of capital held in the Insurance Division as of October 1, 2015, 2014, and 2013.Based on this analysis, Trustmark concluded that no impairment charge was required. A renewed period of falling prices and suppressed demand for the products of the Insurance Division may result in impairment of goodwill in the future. FBBIs ability to maintain the current income trend is dependent on the success of the subsidiarys continued initiatives to attract new business through cross referrals between practice units and bank relationships and seeking new business in other markets. 

Earning assets serve as the primary revenue streams for Trustmark and are comprised of securities, loans, federal funds sold, securities purchased under reverse repurchase agreements and other earning assets. Average earning assets totaled $10.791 billion, or 88.0% of total average assets, at December 31, 2015, compared with $10.445 billion, or 86.8% of total average assets, at December 31, 2014, an increase of $345.8 million, or 3.3%. 

The securities portfolio is utilized by Management to manage interest rate risk, generate interest income, provide liquidity and use as collateral for public and wholesale funding. Risk and return can be adjusted by altering duration, composition and/or balance of the portfolio. The weighted-average life of the portfolio increased to 5.2 years at December 31, 2015, compared to 3.9 years at December 31, 2014.The increase in the weighted-average life of the portfolio in 2015 was primarily due to lowering of the mortgage prepayment estimates. 

When compared with December 31, 2014, total investment securities decreased by $12.0 million during 2015.This decrease resulted primarily from declines in the fair market value of the available for sale securities. Trustmark sold no securities during 2015, compared with $56.5 million during 2014, which generated a net gain of $300 thousand. 

During 2013, Trustmark reclassified approximately $1.099 billion of securities available for sale as securities held to maturity to mitigate the potential adverse impact of a rising interest rate environment on the fair value of the available for sale securities and the related impact on tangible common equity. The securities were transferred at fair value, which became the cost basis for the securities held to maturity. At the date of transfer, the net unrealized holding loss on the available for sale securities totaled approximately $46.6 million. The net unrealized holding loss is amortized over the remaining life of the securities as a yield adjustment in a manner consistent with the amortization or accretion of the original purchase premium or discount on the associated security. There were no gains or losses recognized as a result of the transfer. 

Available for sale securities are carried at their estimated fair value with unrealized gains or losses recognized, net of taxes, in AOCL, a separate component of shareholders equity. At December 31, 2015, available for sale securities totaled $2.345 billion, which represented 66.4% of the securities portfolio, compared to $2.375 billion, or 67.0%, at December 31, 2014.At December 31, 2015, unrealized gains, net on available for sale securities totaled $5.9 million compared to $22.6 million at December 31, 2014.At December 31, 2015, available for sale securities consisted of obligations of states and political subdivisions, GSE guaranteed mortgage-related securities, direct obligations of government agencies and GSEs and asset-backed securities and structured financial products. 

Held to maturity securities are carried at amortized cost and represent those securities that Trustmark both intends and has the ability to hold to maturity. At December 31, 2015, held to maturity securities totaled $1.188 billion and represented 33.6% of the total securities portfolio, compared with $1.171 billion, or 33.0%, at December 31, 2014. 

Mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations are included in maturity categories based on their stated maturity date. Expected maturities may differ from contractual maturities because issuers may have the right to call or prepay obligations. 

Management continues to focus on asset quality as one of the strategic goals of the securities portfolio, which is evidenced by the investment of approximately 94% of the portfolio in GSE-backed obligations and other Aaa-rated securities as determined by Moodys Investors Services (Moodys).None of the securities owned by Trustmark are collateralized by assets which are considered sub-prime. Furthermore, outside of stock ownership in the FHLB of Dallas, FHLB of Atlanta and Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, Trustmark does not hold any other equity investment in a GSE. 

As of December 31, 2015, Trustmark did not hold securities of any one issuer with a carrying value exceeding ten percent of total shareholders equity, other than certain GSEs which are exempt from inclusion. Management continues to closely monitor the credit quality as well as the ratings of the debt and mortgage-backed securities issued by the GSEs and held in Trustmarks securities portfolio. 

The table above presenting the credit rating of Trustmarks securities is formatted to show the securities according to the credit rating category, and not by category of the underlying security. At December 31, 2015, approximately 93.8% of the available for sale securities and 95.3% of held to maturity securities were rated Aaa. 

At December 31, 2015, LHFS totaled $160.2 million, consisting of $124.2 million of residential real estate mortgage loans in the process of being sold to third parties and $36.0 million of GNMA optional repurchase loans. At December 31, 2014, LHFS totaled $132.2 million, consisting of $91.2 million of residential real estate mortgage loans in the process of being sold to third parties and $41.0 million of GNMA optional repurchase loans. Please refer to the nonperforming assets table that follows for information on GNMA loans eligible for repurchase which are past due 90 days or more. 

During 2015, Trustmark exercised its option to repurchase approximately $28.5 million delinquent loans serviced for GNMA.These loans were subsequently sold to a third party under different repurchase provisions. Trustmark retained the servicing for these loans, which are subject to guarantees by FHA/VA.As a result of this repurchase and sale, the loans are no longer carried as LHFS.The transaction resulted in a gain of $304 thousand, which is included in mortgage banking, net for 2015.Trustmark did not exercise its buy-back option on any delinquent loans serviced for GNMA during 2014. 

For additional information regarding the GNMA optional repurchase loans, please see the section captioned Past Due LHFS included in Note 5  LHFI and Allowance for Loan Losses, LHFI of Part II.   8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this report. 

LHFI secured by real estate increased $360.7 million, or 8.9%, during 2015 as growth in in the Alabama, Texas and Mississippi market regions was partially offset by declines in the Tennessee and Florida market regions. The most significant growth was from LHFI secured by construction, land development and other land which increased $204.8 million, or 33.0%, during 2015, primarily due to growth in other construction loans and 1-4 family construction. Other construction loans increased $185.7 million, or 68.7%, during 2015, due to growth across all five of Trustmarks market regions. During 2015, $152.9 million in other construction loans were moved to the appropriate permanent categories upon completion, including $101.4 million in non-owner occupied, $30.8 million in owner occupied and $20.7 million in multi-family residential. Excluding all reclassifications between loan categories, growth in other construction loans was $330.9 million for 2015.The 1-4 family construction loan portfolio increased $18.3 million, or 13.4%, during 2015, principally due to growth in Trustmarks Alabama, Mississippi, Texas and Florida market regions. 

The commercial real estate loan portfolio increased $183.3 million, or 11.8%, during 2015.The increase in the commercial real estate loan portfolio was primarily attributable to increases in non-owner occupied loans in Trustmarks Alabama, Texas and Mississippi market regions, principally due to construction loans moved to permanent financing, partially offset by declines in Trustmarks Florida and Tennessee market regions, and increases in owner occupied loans in Trustmarks Alabama, Mississippi, Florida and Texas market regions. Other real estate secured LHFI decreased $42.6 million, or 16.8%, during 2015, primarily due to decreases in multi-family residential loans in the Mississippi and Tennessee market regions. 

The commercial and industrial loan portfolio increased $72.9 million, or 5.7%, during 2015, principally in the Tennessee, Texas and Alabama market regions, partially offset by declines in the Mississippi market region. Trustmarks exposure to the energy sector is primarily included in the commercial and industrial loan portfolio in Trustmarks Mississippi and Texas market regions. At December 31, 2015 and 2014, energy-related LHFI had outstanding balances of approximately $213.0 million and $208.0 million, respectively, which represented approximately 3.0% of Trustmarks total LHFI portfolio for both years. Trustmark has no loan exposure where the source of repayment, or the underlying security of such exposure, is tied to the realization of value from energy reserves. Should oil prices remain at current levels or below for a prolonged period of time, there is potential for downgrades to occur. Management will continue to monitor this exposure. 

State and other political subdivision LHFI increased $131.9 million, or 21.9%, during 2015 principally due to growth in traditional public finance loans, such as investments that entail the use of tax anticipation notes, public school improvements, facility improvements and renovations, in Trustmarks Mississippi, Texas, Alabama and Tennessee market regions. The other loan portfolio, which includes lending to nonprofits and real estate investment trusts, increased $75.3 million, or 21.7%, during 2015, which primarily represented growth in Trustmarks Mississippi, Texas and Alabama market regions. 

Due to the increased risk associated with second liens, loan terms and underwriting guidelines differ from those used for products secured by first liens. Loan amounts and loan-to-value ratios are limited and are lower for second liens than first liens. Also, interest rates and maximum amortization periods are adjusted accordingly. In addition, regardless of lien position, the passing credit score for approval of all home equity lines of credit is higher than that of term loans. The allowance for loan losses, LHFI is also reflective of the increased risk related to second liens through application of a greater loss factor to this portion of the portfolio. 

In the following tables, LHFI reported by region (along with related nonperforming assets and net charge-offs) are associated with location of origination except for loans secured by 1-4 family residential properties (representing traditional mortgages) and credit cards. These loans are included in the Mississippi market region because they are centrally analyzed and approved as part of a specific line of business located at Trustmarks headquarters in Jackson, Mississippi. 

At December 31, 2015, Trustmark held alt A mortgages with an aggregate principal balance of $1.4 million (0.03% of total LHFI secured by real estate at that date) compared to $1.5 million (0.04% of total LHFI secured by real estate at that date) at December 31, 2014.These alt A loans have been originated by Trustmark as an accommodation to certain Trustmark customers for whom Trustmark determined that such loans were suitable under the purposes of the FNMA alt A program and under Trustmarks loan origination standards. Trustmark does not have any no-interest loans, other than a small number of loans made to customers that are charitable organizations, the aggregate amount of which is not material to Trustmarks financial condition or results of operations. 

Due to the short-term nature of most commercial real estate lending and the practice of annual renewal of commercial lines of credit, approximately one-third of Trustmarks portfolio matures in less than one year. Such a short-term maturity profile is not unusual for a commercial bank and provides Trustmark the opportunity to obtain updated financial information from its borrowers and to actively monitor its borrowers creditworthiness. This maturity profile is well matched with many of Trustmarks sources of funding, which are also short-term in nature. 

Trustmarks allowance for loan loss methodology is based on guidance provided in SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. Trustmarks allowance has been developed using different factors to estimate losses based upon specific evaluation of identified individual LHFI considered impaired, estimated identified losses on various pools of LHFI and/or groups of risk rated LHFI with common risk characteristics and other external and internal factors of estimated probable losses based on other facts and circumstances. The level of Trustmarks allowance reflects Managements continuing evaluation of specific credit risks, loan loss experience, current loan portfolio growth, present economic, political and regulatory conditions and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. For a complete description of Trustmarks allowance for loan loss methodology and the quantitative and qualitative factors included in the valuation allowance, please see Note 5  LHFI and Allowance for Loan Losses, LHFI included in Part II.   8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this report. 

The provision for loan losses, LHFI represents the change in the estimated loan losses determined utilizing Trustmarks allowance for loan loss methodology net of charge-offs and recoveries of LHFI charged against net income. The provision for loan losses, LHFI, for 2015 totaled 0.12% of average loans (LHFS and LHFI), compared with 0.02% of average loans (LHFS and LHFI) in 2014 and -0.23% of average loans (LHFS and LHFI) in 2013.The increase in the provision for loan losses, LHFI during 2015 resulted primarily from changes to Trustmarks allowance for loan loss methodology, an increase in charge-offs of LHFI, principally in the Mississippi and Texas market regions, a decline in recoveries on LHFI, principally in the Mississippi and Florida market regions, and a decline in the amount of reserves released, principally in the Texas and Florida market regions, compared to 2014.The increase in the provision during 2014 was primarily a result of an increase in the amount of established reserves for both new and existing impaired LHFI compared to 2013, changes in the quantitative and qualitative reserve factors and other changes in the LHFI portfolio, such as balance changes due to pay-offs and risk rate changes. 

During 2015, Trustmark made revisions to both the quantitative and qualitative portions of the allowance for loan loss methodology for commercial and consumer LHFI.In total, these revisions resulted in an additional provision expense of $9.5 million during 2015.For a complete description of the revisions made to Trustmarks allowance for loan loss methodology during 2015, please see Note 5  LHFI and Allowance for Loan Losses, LHFI included in Part II.   8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this report. 

Net changes to the provision for loan losses, LHFI were highest in Trustmarks Texas, Florida and Mississippi market regions when 2015 is compared to 2014.The provision for loan losses, LHFI for the Texas market region increased $5.4 million during 2015 primarily due to a decline in the amount of reserves released compared to 2014, a large substandard credit that was charged off during 2015, increases in reserves required based on balance and risk rate changes of LHFI and the additional provision expense recorded during 2015 due to the changes in the allowance for loan loss methodology. The $3.6 million increase in provision for the Florida market region was primarily due to the additional provision expense recorded during 2015 for changes in the allowance for loan loss methodology and a decline in recoveries, principally resulting from pay-downs received during 2014 of loans previously charged down partially offset by pay-downs received during 2015.The provision for loan losses, LHFI for the Mississippi market region declined $1.1 million primarily due to a decline in the amount of reserves required based on the qualitative reserve factor calculation and an increase in charge-offs principally due to the charge off of two large substandard credits during 2015, partially offset by an increase in the amount of reserves required based on the quantitative reserve factor calculation, a decrease in the amount of recoveries received during 2015 compared to 2014 and the additional provision expense recorded during 2015 as a result of changes in the allowance for loan loss methodology. 

Trustmark continues to devote significant resources to managing credit risks resulting from the slowdown in residential real estate developments. Management believes that the construction and land development portfolio is appropriately risk rated and adequately reserved based on current conditions. 

During 2015, nonaccrual LHFI decreased $24.0 million, or 30.3%, relative to December 31, 2014 to total $55.3 million, or 0.76% of total LHFI and LHFS.The decrease in nonaccrual LHFI was principally the result of substandard credits in Trustmarks Mississippi, Florida and Texas market regions that were paid off, charged off, foreclosed or paid down partially offset by LHFI migrating to nonaccrual status during 2015.For additional information regarding nonaccrual LHFI, see the section captioned Nonaccrual/Impaired LHFI in Note 5  LHFI and Allowance for Loan Losses, LHFI included in Part II.   8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this report. 

Write-downs of other real estate, excluding covered other real estate, decreased $4.8 million during 2015, compared to an increase of $1.3 million during 2014 and a decrease of $242 thousand during 2013.The decrease in write-downs on other real estate, excluding covered other real estate, during 2015 was the result of the $3.7 million decrease in the provision for other real estate write-downs due to provision recapture in Trustmarks Alabama, Tennessee and Mississippi market regions as reserves for other real estate write-downs previously recorded were used or released during the year, partially offset by provision expense in the Florida market region and decreases in write-downs on other real estate that was revalued during the year, principally in the Tennessee, Florida and Mississippi market regions. The increase in write-downs on other real estate, excluding covered other real estate, during 2014 was primarily the result of a $1.8 million increase in the reserve for write-downs of other real estate, principally in the Alabama market region, and write-downs on BancTrust related other real estate that was revalued during 2014, which were partially offset by declines in write-downs in the Tennessee and Texas market regions. The increase in write-downs on other real estate, excluding covered other real estate, in the Mississippi market region during 2014 was principally due to reserves released during 2013. 

For additional information regarding other real estate, including covered other real estate, see Note 10  Other Real Estate and Covered Other Real Estate included in Part II.   8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this report. 

During 2015, noncovered and covered acquired loans declined $153.1 million, or 29.11%, and $5.9 million, or 25.1%, respectively, compared to balances at December 31, 2014.The decrease in both noncovered and covered acquired loans during 2015 was primarily the result of pay-downs and pay-offs of these acquired loans. Based on the most recent re-estimation of expected cash flows, Trustmark anticipates that acquired loan balances, excluding any settlement of debt, will decline approximately $25.0 million to $30.0 million during the first quarter of 2016.Trustmark also expects the yield on the acquired loans, excluding any recoveries, to be approximately 5.5% to 6.5% for the first quarter of 2016.As the balances in the acquired loan portfolio continue to run-off, Trustmark expects that the income benefit provided by this portfolio will also decline. For additional information regarding acquired loans, including changes in the net carrying value, see Note 6  Acquired Loans included in Part II.   8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this report. 

Trustmarks deposits are its primary source of funding and consist of core deposits from the communities Trustmark serves. Deposits include interest-bearing and noninterest-bearing demand accounts, savings, money market, certificates of deposit and individual retirement accounts. Total deposits were $9.588 billion at December 31, 2015 compared to $9.698 billion at December 31, 2014, a decrease of $110.1 million, or 1.1%.Growth in noninterest-bearing deposits totaled $250.1 million, or 9.1%, and was more than offset by a decline in interest-bearing deposits of $360.2 million, or 5.2%, during 2015.The increase in noninterest-bearing deposits was attributable to growth in public, commercial and consumer demand deposit accounts. The decrease in interest-bearing deposits resulted primarily from the decline in public interest checking accounts, partially offset by growth in consumer and commercial interest checking accounts, and declines in time deposits as a result of Trustmarks continued efforts to reduce high-cost deposit balances and customers continued shift from longer-term commitments due to the low interest rate environment. 

Trustmark uses short-term borrowings to fund growth of earning assets in excess of deposit growth. Short-term borrowings consist primarily of federal funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase agreements, short-term FHLB advances and GNMA optional repurchase loans. Short-term borrowings totaled $853.7 million at December 31, 2015, a decrease of $15.0 million, or 1.7%, when compared with $868.6 million at December 31, 2014.Federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements totaled $441.0 million at December 31, 2015 compared to $443.5 million at December 31, 2014, a decrease of $2.5 million, or 0.6%.Of these amounts $144.0 million and $213.5 million, respectively, represented customer related transactions, such as commercial sweep repurchase balances. Excluding customer related transactions, federal funds purchased totaled $297.0 million at December 31, 2015, an increase of $67.0 million when compared with $230.0 million at December 31, 2014, as Trustmark increased its upstream federal funds purchased as a less costly source of funding. Other short-term borrowings decreased $12.5 million, or 2.9%, during 2015 primarily due to $6.8 million of outstanding short-term FHLB advances with the FHLB of Atlanta which matured during 2015 and a $5.0 million decline in GNMA loans eligible for repurchase. The decline in GNMA loans eligible for repurchase was due to $28.5 million of GNMA optional repurchase loans which were repurchased and subsequently sold during 2015 partially offset by GNMA loans which became eligible for repurchase during the 2015.For additional information regarding Trustmarks GNMA optional repurchase loans, please see the section captioned LHFS.For additional information regarding Trustmarks short-term FHLB advances, please see the section captioned Liquidity. 

As disclosed in Note 15  Defined Benefit and Other Postretirement Benefits included in Part II.   8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this report, Trustmark maintains a noncontributory tax-qualified defined benefit pension plan (Trustmark Capital Accumulation Plan), in which substantially all associates who began employment prior to 2007 participate. The plan provides retirement benefits that are based on the length of credited service and final average compensation, as defined in the plan, and vest upon three years of service. Benefit accruals under the plan have been frozen since 2009, with the exception of certain associates covered through plans obtained in acquisitions that were subsequently merged into the Trustmark plan. Other than the associates covered through these acquired plans that were merged into the Trustmark plan, associates have not earned additional benefits, except for interest as required by law, since the plan was frozen. Current and former associates who participate in the plan retain their right to receive benefits that accrued before the plan was frozen. 

As a result of the merger with BancTrust on February 15, 2013, Trustmark became the sponsor of the BancTrust Pension Plan, a tax-qualified defined benefit pension plan, which was frozen prior to the merger date. On January 28, 2014, Trustmarks Board of Directors authorized the termination of the BancTrust Pension Plan effective as of April 15, 2014.On October 1, 2015, Trustmark received a favorable determination letter from the IRS with respect to the plans termination. In addition, as required by law, a termination notice has been filed with the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC), and it is not anticipated that the PBGC will raise any issues with respect to the plans termination. During 2014, the assets of the BancTrust Pension plan were held in trust and distributed in conjunction with the plan termination. All assets of the BancTrust Pension Plan were distributed as of December 31, 2014.Benefits that were not paid to participants were annuitized under annuity contracts. As a result of the termination of the plan, Trustmark recognized a pre-tax gain of $1.2 million during 2014. 

At December 31, 2015, the fair value of plan assets for Trustmarks qualified defined benefit pension plan totaled $74.1 million and was exceeded by the projected benefit obligation of $91.4 million by $17.3 million. Net periodic benefit cost equaled $4.9 million in 2015, compared with $1.5 million in 2014 and $5.4 million in 2013. 

The fair value of plan assets is determined utilizing current market quotes, while the benefit obligation and periodic benefit costs are determined utilizing actuarial methodology with certain weighted-average assumptions. For 2015, 2014 and 2013, the process used to select the discount rate assumption under FASB ASC Topic 715 takes into account the benefit cash flow and the segmented yields on high-quality corporate bonds that would be available to provide for the payment of the benefit cash flow. Assumptions, which have been chosen to represent the estimate of a particular event as required by GAAP, have been reviewed and approved by Management based on recommendations from its actuaries. For additional information regarding the assumptions used by Management, please refer to the section captioned Critical Accounting Policies  Defined Benefit Plans. 

The range of potential contributions to the Trustmark Capital Accumulation Plan is determined annually by the plans actuary in accordance with applicable IRS rules and regulations. Trustmarks policy is to fund amounts that are sufficient to satisfy the annual minimum funding requirements and do not exceed the maximum that is deductible for federal income tax purposes. The actual amount of the contribution is determined annually based on the plans funded status and return on plan assets as of the measurement date, which is December 31.For the plan year ending December 31, 2015, Trustmarks minimum required contribution to the Trustmark Capital Accumulation Plan was zero. For the plan year ending December 31, 2014, Trustmark contributed approximately $1.0 million to the Trustmark Capital Accumulation Plan prior to the passage of the Highway and Transportation Funding Act (HATFA). HATFA extended the pension funding relief for several more years and was mandatory for 2014. As a result of HATFA, there was no minimum required contribution for the plan year ending December 31, 2014;therefore, no additional contributions were made during 2014.For the plan year ending December 31, 2016, Trustmarks minimum required contribution to the Trustmark Capital Accumulation Plan is expected to be zero; however, Management and the Board of Directors of Trustmark will monitor the plan throughout 2016 to determine any additional funding requirements by the plans measurement date. A contribution of $334 thousand was required during 2014 for the BancTrust Pension Plan in order to complete the plan termination. Since the plan has terminated, there will be no additional contributions required in the future. 

As disclosed in Note 15  Defined Benefit and Other Postretirement Benefits included in Part II.   8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this report, Trustmark maintains a nonqualified supplemental retirement plan covering key executive officers and senior officers as well as directors who have elected to defer fees. The plan provides for retirement and/or death benefits based on a participants covered salary or deferred fees. Although plan benefits may be paid from Trustmarks general assets, Trustmark has purchased life insurance contracts on the participants covered under the plan, which may be used to fund future benefit payments under the plan. The measurement date for the plan is December 31.As a result of the BancTrust merger on February 15, 2013, Trustmark became the administrator of an additional nonqualified supplemental retirement plan, for which the plan benefits were frozen prior to the merger date. 

At December 31, 2015, the accrued benefit obligation for the supplemental retirement plans equaled $57.8 million, while the net periodic benefit cost equaled $3.8 million in 2015, $3.4 million in 2014 and $3.8 million in 2013.The net periodic benefit cost and projected benefit obligation are determined using actuarial assumptions as of the plans measurement date, which is December 31.The process used to select the discount rate assumption under FASB ASC Topic 715 takes into account the benefit cash flow and the segmented yields on high-quality corporate bonds that would be available to provide for the payment of the benefit cash flow. At December 31, 2015, unrecognized actuarial losses and unrecognized prior service costs continue to be amortized over future service periods. 

Information required in this section is set forth under the heading Legal Proceedings of Note 17  Commitments and Contingencies in Part II.   8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this report. 

Information required in this section is set forth under the heading Lending Related of Note 17  Commitments and Contingencies in Part II.   8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this report. 

At December 31, 2015, Trustmarks total shareholders equity was $1.473 billion, an increase of $53.1 million, or 3.7%, from its level at December 31, 2014.During 2015, shareholders equity increased primarily as a result of net income of $116.0 million, which was partially offset by common stock dividends of $62.6 million. Trustmark utilizes a capital model in order to provide Management with a monthly tool for analyzing changes in its strategic capital ratios. This allows Management to hold sufficient capital to provide for growth opportunities and protect the balance sheet against sudden adverse market conditions, while maintaining an attractive return on equity to shareholders. 

As of January 1, 2015, Trustmark and TNB were subject to revised capital requirements, as described in the section captioned Capital Adequacy included in Part I.   1. Business  of this report. Trustmark and TNB are subject to minimum risk-based capital and leverage capital requirements, which are administered by the federal bank regulatory agencies. These capital requirements, as defined by federal regulations, involve quantitative and qualitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet instruments. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can result in certain mandatory and possibly additional discretionary actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have a direct material effect on the financial statements of Trustmark and TNB and limit Trustmarks and TNBs ability to pay dividends. As of December 31, 2015, Trustmark and TNB exceeded all applicable minimum capital standards. In addition, Trustmark and TNB met applicable regulatory guidelines to be considered well-capitalized at December 31, 2015.To be categorized in this manner, Trustmark and TNB maintained minimum common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital, Tier 1 risk-based capital, total risk-based capital and Tier 1 leverage ratios, and were not subject to any written agreement, order or capital directive, or prompt corrective action directive issued by their primary federal regulators to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measures. There are no significant conditions or events that have occurred since December 31, 2015, which Management believes have affected Trustmarks or TNBs present classification. 

During 2006, Trustmark enhanced its capital structure with the issuance of trust preferred securities and Subordinated Notes (the Notes).For regulatory capital purposes, the trust preferred securities currently qualify as Tier 1 capital. Trustmark will continue to utilize $60.0 million in trust preferred securities issued by the Trust as Tier 1 capital up to the regulatory limit, as permitted by the grandfather provision in the Dodd-Frank Act and the Basel III Final Rule. 

Refer to the section captioned Regulatory Capital included in Note 18  Shareholders Equity in Part II.   8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this report for an illustration of Trustmarks and TNBs actual regulatory capital amounts and ratios under regulatory capital standards in effect at December 31, 2015 (Basel III) and December 31, 2014 (Basel I). 

Dividends per common share for each of the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 were $0.92.Trustmarks dividend payout ratio for 2015, 2014 and 2013 was 53.5%, 50.3%, and 52.6%, respectively. Approval by TNBs regulators is required if the total of all dividends declared in any calendar year exceeds the total of its net income for that year combined with its retained net income of the preceding two years. TNB will have available in 2016 approximately $114.3 million plus its net income for that year to pay as dividends to Trustmark. The actual amount of any dividends declared in 2016 by Trustmark will be determined by Trustmarks Board of Directors. 

Liquidity is the ability to ensure that sufficient cash flow and liquid assets are available to satisfy current and future financial obligations, including demand for loans and deposit withdrawals, funding operating costs and other corporate purposes. Consistent cash flows from operations and adequate capital provide internally generated liquidity. Furthermore, Management maintains funding capacity from a variety of external sources to meet daily funding needs, such as those required to meet deposit withdrawals, loan disbursements and security settlements. Liquidity strategy also includes the use of wholesale funding sources to provide for the seasonal fluctuations of deposit and loan demand and the cyclical fluctuations of the economy that impact the availability of funds. Management keeps excess funding capacity available to meet potential demands associated with adverse circumstances. 

The asset side of the balance sheet provides liquidity primarily through maturities and cash flows from loans and securities as well as the ability to sell certain loans and securities while the liability portion of the balance sheet provides liquidity primarily through noninterest and interest-bearing deposits. Trustmark utilizes federal funds purchased, FHLB advances, securities sold under repurchase agreements as well as the Federal Reserve Discount Window (Discount Window) and, on a limited basis as discussed below, brokered deposits to provide additional liquidity. Access to these additional sources represents Trustmarks incremental borrowing capacity. 

Deposit accounts represent Trustmarks largest funding source. Average deposits totaled to $9.628 billion for 2015 and represented approximately 78.5% of average liabilities and shareholders equity, compared to average deposits of $9.769 billion, which represented 81.2% of average liabilities and shareholders equity for 2014. 

Trustmark utilizes a limited amount of brokered deposits to supplement other wholesale funding sources. At December 31, 2015, brokered sweep Money Market Deposit Account (MMDA) deposits totaled $42.3 million compared to $36.5 million at December 31, 2014. 

At December 31, 2015, Trustmark had $297.0 million in upstream federal funds purchased, compared to $230.0 million at December 31, 2014. Trustmark maintains adequate federal funds lines to provide sufficient short-term liquidity. Trustmark also maintains a relationship with the FHLB of Dallas, which provided $350.0 million of outstanding short-term advances and $500.0 million of outstanding long-term advances at December 31, 2015 compared to $350.0 million of short-term advances and no long-term advances outstanding at December 31, 2014.Trustmark chose to increase its use of FHLB advances with the FHLB of Dallas as a funding source for loan growth due to the favorable interest rates afforded by these advances as compared to other sources in the market. Under the existing borrowing agreement, Trustmark had sufficient qualifying collateral to increase FHLB advances with the FHLB of Dallas by $1.328 billion at December 31, 2015.In addition, at December 31, 2015, Trustmark had $1.2 million in FHLB advances outstanding with the FHLB of Atlanta, which were acquired in the BancTrust merger, compared to $8.0 million at December 31, 2014.Trustmark has non-member status and thus no additional borrowing capacity with the FHLB of Atlanta. 

Additionally, Trustmark has the ability to enter into wholesale funding repurchase agreements as a source of borrowing by utilizing its unencumbered investment securities as collateral. At December 31, 2015, Trustmark had approximately $1.194 billion available in repurchase agreement capacity compared to $893.0 million at December 31, 2014.The increase in repurchase agreement capacity at December 31, 2015, was primarily due to an increase in the unencumbered investment portfolio balance resulting from lower public deposit and repurchase balances. 

Another borrowing source is the Discount Window. At December 31, 2015, Trustmark had approximately $883.7 million available in collateral capacity at the Discount Window from pledges of commercial and industrial LHFI, compared with $955.3 million at December 31, 2014.The decrease in Trustmarks collateral capacity at the Discount Window was due primarily to adjustments by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta to their loan pricing methodology and the release of securities pledged. 

TNB has outstanding $50.0 million in aggregate principal amount of the Notes due December 15, 2016.At December 31, 2015, the carrying amount of the Notes was $50.0 million. The Notes are unsecured and subordinate and junior in right of payment to TNBs obligations to its depositors, its obligations under bankers acceptances and letters of credit, its obligations to any Federal Reserve Bank or the FDIC and its obligations to its other creditors, and to any rights acquired by the FDIC as a result of loans made by the FDIC to TNB. 

During 2006, Trustmark completed a private placement of $60.0 million of trust preferred securities through a newly formed Delaware trust affiliate, the Trust. The trust preferred securities mature September 30, 2036 and are redeemable at Trustmarks option. The proceeds from the sale of the trust preferred securities were used by the Trust to purchase $61.9 million in aggregate principal amount of Trustmarks junior subordinated debentures. 

The Board of Directors of Trustmark currently has the authority to issue up to 20.0 million preferred shares with no par value. The ability to issue preferred shares in the future will provide Trustmark with additional financial and management flexibility for general corporate and acquisition purposes. At December 31, 2015, Trustmark had no shares of preferred stock issued and outstanding. 

Liquidity position and strategy are reviewed regularly by Management and continuously adjusted in relationship to Trustmarks overall strategy. Management believes that Trustmark has sufficient liquidity and capital resources to meet presently known cash flow requirements arising from ongoing business transactions. 

Market risk reflects the potential risk of loss arising from adverse changes in interest rates and market prices. Trustmark has risk management policies to monitor and limit exposure to market risk. Trustmarks primary market risk is interest rate risk created by core banking activities. Interest rate risk is the potential variability of the income generated by Trustmarks financial products or services, which results from changes in various market interest rates. Market rate changes may take the form of absolute shifts, variances in the relationships between different rates and changes in the shape or slope of the interest rate term structure. 

Management continually develops and applies cost-effective strategies to manage these risks. Managements Asset/Liability Committee sets the day-to-day operating guidelines, approves strategies affecting net interest income and coordinates activities within policy limits established by the Board of Directors of Trustmark. A key objective of the asset/liability management program is to quantify, monitor and manage interest rate risk and to assist Management in maintaining stability in the net interest margin under varying interest rate environments. 

Trustmark uses financial derivatives for management of interest rate risk. Managements Asset/Liability Committee, in its oversight role for the management of interest rate risk, approves the use of derivatives in balance sheet hedging strategies. The most common derivatives employed by Trustmark are interest rate lock commitments, forward contracts (both futures contracts and options on futures contracts), interest rate swaps, interest rate caps and interest rate floors. 

These transactions are designed to hedge interest rate, currency or other exposures of the customers and are not entered into by Trustmark for speculative purposes. Increased federal regulation of the derivatives markets may increase the cost to Trustmark to administer derivatives programs. 

On April 4, 2013, Trustmark entered into a forward interest rate swap contract on junior subordinated debentures with a total notional amount of $60.0 million. The interest rate swap contract was designated as a derivative instrument in a cash flow hedge under FASB ASC Topic 815, with the objective of protecting the quarterly interest payments on Trustmarks $60.0 million of junior subordinated debentures issued to the Trust throughout the five-year period beginning December 31, 2014 and ending December 31, 2019 from the risk of variability of those payments resulting from changes in the three-month LIBOR interest rate. Under the swap, which became effective on December 31, 2014, Trustmark pays a fixed interest rate of 1.66% and receives a variable interest rate based on three-month LIBOR on a total notional amount of $60.0 million, with quarterly net settlements. 

No ineffectiveness related to the interest rate swap designated as a cash flow hedge was recognized in the consolidated statements of income during the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014.The accumulated net after-tax loss related to the effective cash flow hedge included in AOCL totaled $160 thousand at December 31, 2015 compared to an accumulated net after-tax gain of $136 thousand at December 31, 2014.Amounts reported in AOCL related to this derivative are reclassified to other interest expense as interest payments are made on Trustmarks variable rate junior subordinated debentures. During the next twelve months, Trustmark estimates that $495 thousand will be reclassified as an increase to other interest expense. 

As part of Trustmarks risk management strategy in the mortgage banking business, various derivative instruments such as interest rate lock commitments and forward sales contracts are utilized. Rate lock commitments are residential mortgage loan commitments with customers, which guarantee a specified interest rate for a specified period of time. Trustmarks obligations under forward contracts consist of commitments to deliver mortgage loans, originated and/or purchased, in the secondary market at a future date. The gross notional amount of Trustmarks off-balance sheet obligations under these derivative instruments totaled $298.6 million at December 31, 2015, with a positive valuation adjustment of $1.4 million, compared to $230.4 million, with a positive valuation adjustment of $285 thousand at December 31, 2014. 

Ineffectiveness of hedging the MSR fair value is measured by comparing the change in value of hedge instruments to the change in the fair value of the MSR asset attributable to changes in interest rates and other market driven changes in valuation inputs and assumptions. The impact of this strategy resulted in a net positive ineffectiveness of $1.9 million and $3.1 million for 2015 and 2014, respectively. The net positive ineffectiveness was primarily due to the mortgage spread widening during 2015 coupled with a decline in mortgage rates compared to the tightening in the mortgage spread and higher mortgage rates during 2014. 

Trustmark offers certain interest rate derivatives products directly to qualified commercial lending clients seeking to manage their interest rate risk under loans they have entered into with TNB.Trustmark economically hedges interest rate swap transactions executed with commercial lending clients by entering into offsetting interest rate swap transactions with institutional derivatives market participants. Derivatives transactions executed as part of this program are not designated as qualifying hedging relationships under GAAP and are, therefore, carried on Trustmarks financial statements at fair value with the change in fair value recorded in noninterest income in bank card and other fees. Because these derivatives have mirror-image contractual terms, in addition to collateral provisions which mitigate the impact of non-performance risk, the changes in fair value are expected to substantially offset. As of December 31, 2015, Trustmark had interest rate swaps with an aggregate notional amount of $359.3 million related to this program, compared to $349.4 million as of December 31, 2014. 

As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, the termination value of interest rate swaps in a liability position, which includes accrued interest but excludes any adjustment for nonperformance risk, related to these agreements was $2.6 million and $1.9 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2015, Trustmark had posted collateral of $2.2 million against its obligations because of negotiated thresholds and minimum transfer amounts under these agreements. If Trustmark had breached any of these triggering provisions at December 31, 2015, it could have been required to settle its obligations under the agreements at the termination value (which is expected to approximate fair market value). 

Credit risk participation agreements arise when Trustmark contracts with other financial institutions, as a guarantor or beneficiary, to share credit risk associated with certain interest rate swaps. These agreements provide for reimbursement of losses resulting from a third party default on the underlying swap. At December 31, 2015, Trustmark had entered into two risk participation agreements as a beneficiary with an aggregate notional amount of $14.8 million compared to three risk participation agreements as a beneficiary with an aggregate notional amount of $19.1 million at December 31, 2014.As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, Trustmark had entered into one risk participation agreement as a guarantor with an aggregate notional amount of $5.9 million and $6.2 million, respectively. The aggregate fair values of these risk participation agreements were immaterial at December 31, 2015 and 2014. 

Trustmarks participation in the derivatives markets is subject to increased federal regulation of these markets. Trustmark believes that it may continue to use financial derivatives to manage interest rate risk and also to offer derivatives products to certain qualified commercial lending clients in compliance with the Volcker Rule. However, the increased federal regulation of the derivatives markets has increased the cost to Trustmark of administering its derivatives programs. Some of these costs (particularly compliance costs related to the Volcker Rule and other federal regulations) are expected to recur in the future.The following provides a narrative discussion and analysis of Trustmarks financial condition and results of operations. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the supplemental financial data included in Part II.   8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this report. 

Trustmark continued to achieve solid financial results with total revenues of $139.1 million and $564.9 million for the three months and year ended December 31, 2015, respectively. Trustmark continued to maintain and expand customer relationships across its lines of business as reflected by growth in the LHFI portfolio, which increased $641.9 million, or 10.0%, during 2015 primarily within the Alabama, Texas, Tennessee and Mississippi market regions, as well as growth in insurance commissions and mortgage loan production volumes. Credit quality remained strong and continued to be an important contributor to Trustmarks financial success. Nonperforming assets declined 8.7% during the fourth quarter of 2015 and 22.9% for the full year 2015.Net interest income excluding acquired loans increased 3.7% during 2015.Trustmarks capital position remained solid, with Trustmark and TNB continuing to meet regulatory well-capitalized standards, reflecting the consistent profitability of its diversified financial services businesses. Trustmark also continued the realignment of its retail delivery channels to enhance productivity and efficiency as well as promote additional revenue growth. 

Trustmark is committed to investments to support profitable revenue growth as well as reengineering and efficiency opportunities to enhance shareholder value. Trustmarks Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.23 per share. The dividend is payable March 15, 2016, to shareholders of record on March 1, 2016. 

Trustmark reported net income of $27.9 million, or basic and diluted earnings per share (EPS) of $0.41, in the fourth quarter of 2015, compared to $28.1 million, or basic and diluted EPS of $0.42, in the fourth quarter of 2014.The slight decline in net income when the fourth quarter of 2015 is compared to the same time period in 2014 was principally the result of an increase in the provision for loan losses, LHFI and a decline in total revenue, which is defined as net interest income plus noninterest income, which was mostly offset by a decrease in noninterest expense. Trustmarks performance during the quarter ended December 31, 2015, produced a return on average tangible equity of 10.61%, a return on average assets of 0.88%, an average equity to average assets ratio of 11.83% and a dividend payout ratio of 56.1%, compared to a return on average tangible equity of 11.40%, a return on average assets of 0.92%, an average equity to average assets ratio of 11.73% and a dividend payout ratio of 54.8% during the quarter ended December 31, 2014. 

Noninterest expense for the fourth quarter of 2015 decreased $5.8 million, or 5.6%, when compared to the same time period in 2014, principally due to decreases in ORE/foreclosure expense and other expense. The decrease in ORE/foreclosure expense was primarily the result of a decline in the provision for other real estate write-downs, an increase in the net gain on sale of other real estate and a decrease in other real estate tax expense. The decrease in other expense was primarily due to declines in other miscellaneous expenses principally resulting from a legal reserve recorded during 2014 and decreases in customer related fraud losses and charitable contributions. 

For the year ended December 31, 2015, Trustmark reported net income of $116.0 million, or basic and diluted EPS of $1.72 and $1.71, respectively, compared to $123.6 million, or basic and diluted EPS of $1.83, for the year ended December 31, 2014 and $117.1 million, or basic and diluted EPS of $1.75, for the year ended December 31, 2013.The decline in net income when 2015 is compared to 2014 was principally the result of a decline in total revenue partially offset by a decrease in noninterest expense. Trustmarks performance for the year ended December 31, 2015, produced a return on average tangible equity of 11.36%, a return on average assets of 0.95% and a dividend payout ratio of 53.5%, compared to a return on average tangible equity of 12.97%, a return on average assets of 1.03% and a dividend payout ratio of 50.3% for the year ended December 31, 2014 and a return on average tangible equity of 13.09%, a return on average assets of 1.02% and a dividend payout ratio of 52.6% for the year ended December 31, 2013.Trustmarks average equity to average assets ratio was 11.90%, 11.63% and 11.60% for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 

Revenue totaled $564.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to $578.5 million and $562.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Revenue for 2015 decreased $13.6 million, or 2.3%, compared to 2014 principally due to a decrease in interest and fees on acquired loans, which was partially offset by an increase in interest and fees on LHFS and LHFI and a decrease in interest expense on deposits. Interest and fees on acquired loans decreased $25.6 million, or 33.3%, when 2015 is compared to 2014, primarily due to a $18.1 million decline in accretion income and a $5.8 million decline in recoveries on acquired loans as acquired loans have continued to pay down. Interest and fees on LHFS and LHFI increased $10.9 million, or 4.1%, for the year, primarily due to the $641.9 million increase in the LHFI portfolio. Interest expense on deposits decreased $2.7 million, or 17.8%, during 2015 principally due to the decline in interest-bearing deposits. Interest-bearing deposits totaled $6.590 billion at December 31, 2015, a decrease of $360.2 million, or 5.2%, when compared to December 31, 2014.Total noninterest income for 2015 remained stable when compared to 2014, as increases in mortgage banking, net and insurance commissions were offset by declines in all other categories of noninterest income. Mortgage banking, net increased $5.4 million, or 21.8%, during 2015 principally due to increases in gain on sales of loans, net. Insurance commissions increased $3.0 million, or 8.8%, during the year primarily due to growth in the commercial property and casualty line of business. Bank card and other fees for 2015 declined $4.7 million, or 14.2%, when compared to 2014 principally due to the decline in interchange income. 

Noninterest expense for 2015 declined $7.3 million, or 1.8%, when compared to 2014 as declines in ORE/foreclosure expense, other expense and net occupancy-premises were partially offset by an increase in salaries and employee benefits. ORE/Foreclosure expense for the year declined $6.4 million, or 56.7%, principally due to declines in the provision for other real estate write-downs and other real estate carrying costs. Other expense declined $4.7 million, or 8.8%, during the year primarily due to decreases in other miscellaneous expense and the amortization of the core deposit intangible asset. 

Salaries and employee benefits increased $3.5 million, or 1.5%, during the year primarily due to an increase in commission expense as a result of expanded mortgage and insurance production, an increase in expenses related to Trustmarks qualified defined benefit pension plan, and a net gain recorded during 2014 related to the termination and distribution of the BancTrust Pension Plan, which were partially offset by a decrease in general incentives. Please see the section captioned Results of Operations for a more complete overview of Trustmarks financial performance for 2015. 

At December 31, 2015, nonperforming assets, excluding acquired loans and covered other real estate, totaled $132.5 million, a decrease of $39.4 million, or 22.9%, compared to December 31, 2014 due to declines in both nonaccrual LHFI and other real estate, excluding covered other real estate. Total nonaccrual LHFI were $55.3 million at December 31, 2015, representing a decrease of $24.0 million, or 30.3%, relative to December 31, 2014 principally due to substandard credits in Trustmarks Mississippi, Florida and Texas market regions that were paid off, charged off, foreclosed or paid down partially offset by LHFI migrating to nonaccrual status during 2015.The percentage of loans, excluding acquired loans, that are 30 days or more past due and nonaccrual LHFI decreased in 2015 to 1.44% compared to 2.12% in 2014 and 2.01% in 2013.Other real estate, excluding covered other real estate, declined $15.3 million, or 16.6%, during 2015 primarily due to properties sold in Trustmarks Texas, Florida, Alabama and Mississippi market regions partially offset by properties foreclosed in the Alabama, Florida and Mississippi market regions. 

LHFI totaled $7.091 billion at December 31, 2015, an increase of $641.9 million, or 10.0%, compared to December 31, 2014.The increase in LHFI during 2015 was primarily due to growth in construction lending in all of Trustmarks market regions; increases in commercial real estate loans in the Alabama, Texas and Mississippi market regions and increases in state and other political subdivision loans and other loans in Trustmarks Mississippi and Texas market regions. For additional information regarding changes in LHFI and comparative balances by loan category, see the section captioned LHFI. 

Management has continued its practice of maintaining excess funding capacity to provide Trustmark with adequate liquidity for its ongoing operations. In this regard, Trustmark benefits from its strong deposit base, its highly liquid investment portfolio and its access to funding from a variety of external funding sources such as upstream federal funds lines, FHLB advances and, on a limited basis, brokered deposits. 

Total deposits were $9.588 billion at December 31, 2015, a decrease of $110.1 million, or 1.1% compared to December 31, 2014.During 2015, noninterest-bearing deposits increased $250.1 million, or 9.1%, while interest-bearing deposits declined $360.2 million, or 5.2%, primarily due to declines in public interest checking accounts and certificates of deposits. Other short-term borrowings totaled $853.7 million at December 31, 2015, a decrease of $15.0 million, or 1.7%, when compared with $868.6 million at December 31, 2014.The decrease in other short-term borrowings was principally due to $6.8 million of outstanding short-term FHLB advances with the FHLB of Atlanta which matured during 2015 and a $5.0 million decline in Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA) loans eligible for repurchase. 

Trustmarks consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP and follow general practices within the financial services industry. Application of these accounting principles requires Management to make estimates, assumptions and judgments that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. These estimates, assumptions and judgments are based on information available as of the date of the consolidated financial statements; accordingly, as this information changes, actual financial results could differ from those estimates. 

Certain policies inherently have a greater reliance on the use of estimates, assumptions and judgments and, as such, have a greater possibility of producing results that could be materially different than originally reported. These critical accounting policies are described below. 

For additional information regarding the accounting policies discussed below, please see Note 1  Significant Accounting Policies set forth in Part II.   8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this report. 

The allowance for loan losses, LHFI is established through provisions for estimated loan losses charged against net income. The allowance reflects Managements best estimate of the probable loan losses related to specifically identified LHFI as well as probable incurred loan losses in the remaining loan portfolio and requires considerable judgment. The allowance is based upon Managements current judgments and the credit quality of the loan portfolio, including all internal and external factors that impact loan collectibility. Accordingly, the allowance is based upon both past events and current economic conditions. 

A significant shift in one or more factors included in the allowance for loan loss methodology could result in a material change to Trustmarks allowance for loan losses, LHFI.For example, if there were changes in one or more of the estimates, assumptions or judgments used as they relate to a portfolio of commercial LHFI, Trustmark could find that it needs to increase the level of future provisions for possible loan losses with respect to that portfolio. Additionally, credit deterioration of specific borrowers due to changes in these factors could cause the internally assigned risk rating to shift to a more severe category. As a result, Trustmark could find that it needs to increase the level of future provisions for possible loan losses with respect to these LHFI.Given the nature of many of these estimates, assumptions and judgments, it is not possible to provide meaningful estimates of the impact of any such potential shifts. 

During 2015, Trustmark made revisions to both the quantitative and qualitative portions of the allowance for loan loss methodology for commercial and consumer LHFI.For a complete description of the revisions made to Trustmarks allowance for loan loss methodology during 2015, please see Note 5  LHFI and Allowance for Loan Losses, LHFI included in Part II.   8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this report. 

Acquired loans are recorded at their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date. Fair value of acquired loans is determined using a discounted cash flow model based on assumptions regarding the amount and timing of principal and interest payments, estimated prepayments, estimated default rates, estimated loss severity in the event of defaults, and current market rates. Estimated credit losses are included in the determination of fair value; therefore, an allowance for loan losses is not recorded on the acquisition date. 

The nonaccretable difference represents an estimate of the loss exposure of principal and interest related to the acquired impaired loan portfolio, and such amount is subject to change over time based on the performance of such loans. The excess of undiscounted expected cash flows at acquisition over the initial fair value of acquired impaired loans is referred to as the accretable yield and is recorded as interest income over the estimated life of the loans using the effective yield method if the timing and amount of the future cash flows is reasonably estimable. Under the effective yield method, the accretable yield is recorded as an accretion of interest income over the life of the loan. 

As required by FASB ASC Topic 310 - 30, Trustmark periodically re-estimates the expected cash flows to be collected over the life of the acquired impaired loans. If, based on current information and events, it is probable that Trustmark will be unable to collect all cash flows expected at acquisition plus additional cash flows expected to be collected arising from changes in estimate after acquisition, the acquired loans are considered impaired. The decrease in the expected cash flows reduces the carrying value of the acquired impaired loans as well as the accretable yield and results in a charge to income through the provision for loan losses, acquired loans, and the establishment of an allowance for loan losses, acquired loans. If, based on current information and events, it is probable that there is a significant increase in the cash flows previously expected to be collected or if actual cash flows are significantly greater than cash flows previously expected, Trustmark will reduce any remaining allowance for loan losses, acquired loans established on the acquired impaired loans for the increase in the present value of cash flows expected to be collected. The increase in the expected cash flows for the acquired impaired loans over those originally estimated at acquisition increases the carrying value of the acquired impaired loans as well as the accretable yield. 

Trustmark has elected to account for amounts receivable under a loss-share agreement as an indemnification asset in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 805, Business Combinations. A FDIC indemnification asset is initially recorded at fair value, based on the discounted value of expected future cash flows under the loss-share agreement. The difference between the present value at the acquisition date and the undiscounted cash flows Trustmark expects to collect from the FDIC is accreted into noninterest income over the life of the FDIC indemnification asset. 

The FDIC indemnification asset is revalued concurrent with the loan re-estimation and adjusted for any changes in expected cash flows based on recent performance and expectations for future performance of covered loans and covered other real estate. These adjustments are measured on the same basis as the related covered loans and covered other real estate. Increases in the cash flows of the covered loans and covered other real estate over those expected reduce the FDIC indemnification asset, and decreases in the cash flows of the covered loans and covered other real estate under those expected increase the FDIC indemnification asset. Increases and decreases to the FDIC indemnification asset are recorded as adjustments to noninterest income. 

Trustmark recognizes as assets the rights to service mortgage loans based on the estimated fair value of the MSR when loans are sold and the associated servicing rights are retained. Trustmark has elected to account for the MSR at fair value. 

The fair value of the MSR is determined using a valuation model administered by a third party that calculates the present value of estimated future net servicing income. The model incorporates assumptions that market participants use in estimating future net servicing income, including estimates of prepayment speeds, discount rate, default rates, cost to service (including delinquency and foreclosure costs), escrow account earnings, contractual servicing fee income and other ancillary income such as late fees. Management reviews all significant assumptions quarterly. Mortgage loan prepayment speeds, a key assumption in the model, is the annual rate at which borrowers are forecasted to repay their mortgage loan principal. The discount rate used to determine the present value of estimated future net servicing income, another key assumption in the model, is an estimate of the required rate of return investors in the market would require for an asset with similar risk. Both assumptions can, and generally will, change as market conditions and interest rates change. 

By way of example, an increase in either the prepayment speed or discount rate assumption will result in a decrease in the fair value of the MSR, while a decrease in either assumption will result in an increase in the fair value of the MSR.In recent years, there have been significant market-driven fluctuations in loan prepayment speeds and discount rates. These fluctuations can be rapid and may continue to be significant. Therefore, estimating prepayment speed and/or discount rates within ranges that market participants would use in determining the fair value of the MSR requires significant management judgment. 

At December 31, 2015, the MSR fair value was approximately $74.0 million. The impact on the MSR fair value of a 10% adverse change in prepayment speeds or a 100 basis point increase in discount rates at December 31, 2015, would be a decline in fair value of approximately $2.4 million and $2.6 million, respectively. Changes of equal magnitude in the opposite direction would produce similar increases in fair value in the respective amounts. 

Trustmark records all assets and liabilities acquired in purchase acquisitions, including goodwill and other intangible assets, at fair value as required by FASB ASC Topic 805.The carrying amount of goodwill at December 31, 2015 totaled $321.1 million for the General Banking Division and $45.0 million for the Insurance Division, a consolidated total of $366.2 million. Trustmarks goodwill is not amortized but is subject to annual tests for impairment or more often if events or circumstances indicate it may be impaired. Trustmarks identifiable intangible assets, which totaled $27.5 million at December 31, 2015, are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are subject to impairment tests if events or circumstances indicate a possible inability to realize the carrying amount. 

The initial recording and subsequent impairment testing of goodwill requires subjective judgments concerning estimates of the fair value of the acquired assets. The goodwill impairment test is performed in two phases. The first step compares the fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is considered not impaired; however, if the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an additional procedure must be performed. That additional procedure, or a second step, compares the implied fair value of the reporting units goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. An impairment loss would be recorded to the extent that the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value. Trustmark performed an annual impairment test of goodwill for reporting units contained in both the General Banking and Insurance Divisions as of October 1, 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively, which indicated that no impairment charge was required. The impairment test for the General Banking Division utilized valuations based on comparable deal values for financial institutions while the test for the Insurance Division utilizes varying valuation scenarios for the multiple of earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) method based on recent acquisition activity. Based on this analysis, Trustmark concluded that no impairment charge was required. Significant changes in future profitability and value of our reporting units could affect Trustmarks impairment evaluation. 

The carrying amount of Trustmarks identifiable intangible assets subject to amortization is not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition. That assessment shall be based on the carrying amount of the intangible assets subject to amortization at the date it is tested for recoverability. Intangible assets subject to amortization shall be tested for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that its carrying amount may not be recoverable. 

Fair value may be determined using market prices, comparison to similar assets, market multiples and other determinants. Factors that may significantly affect the estimates include, among others, competitive forces, customer behavior and attrition, changes in revenue growth trends and specific industry or market sector conditions. Other key judgments in accounting for intangibles include determining the useful life of the particular asset and classifying assets as either goodwill (which does not require amortization) or identifiable intangible assets (which does require amortization). 

Other real estate includes assets that have been acquired in satisfaction of debt through foreclosure and is recorded at the lower of cost or estimated fair value less the estimated cost of disposition. Fair value is based on independent appraisals and other relevant factors. Valuation adjustments required at foreclosure are charged to the allowance for loan losses. Other real estate is revalued on an annual basis or more often if market conditions necessitate. Subsequent to foreclosure, losses on the periodic revaluation of the property are charged against a reserve specific to other real estate or to noninterest expense in ORE/Foreclosure expense if a reserve does not exist. Significant judgments and complex estimates are required in estimating the fair value of other real estate, and the period of time within which such estimates can be considered current is significantly shortened during periods of market volatility, as experienced in recent years. As a result, the net proceeds realized from sales transactions could differ significantly from appraisals, comparable sales, and other estimates used to determine the fair value of other real estate. 

All other real estate acquired in a FDIC-assisted acquisition that is subject to a FDIC loss-share agreement is referred to as covered other real estate and reported separately in Trustmarks consolidated balance sheets. Covered other real estate is reported exclusive of expected reimbursement cash flows from the FDIC.Foreclosed covered loan collateral is transferred into covered other real estate at the collaterals net realizable value. 

Covered other real estate is initially recorded at its estimated fair value on the acquisition date based on an independent appraisal less estimated selling costs. Any subsequent valuation adjustments due to declines in fair value are charged to noninterest expense in ORE/Foreclosure expense and are mostly offset by other noninterest income representing the corresponding increase to the FDIC indemnification asset for the offsetting loss reimbursement amount. Any recoveries of previous valuation adjustments are credited to ORE/Foreclosure expense with a corresponding charge to other noninterest income for the portion of the recovery that is due to the FDIC. 

Trustmarks plan assets, projected benefit liabilities and pension cost are determined utilizing actuarially-determined present value calculations. The valuation of the projected benefit obligation and net periodic pension expense for Trustmarks Capital Accumulation Plan and Supplemental Retirement Plans requires Management to make estimates regarding the amount and timing of expected cash outflows. Several variables affect these calculations, including (i) size and characteristics of the associate population, (ii) discount rate, (iii) expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and (iv) recognition of actual returns on plan assets. Below is a brief description of the variables that introduce material uncertainty into Managements estimates and the effect they have on estimated pension cost. 

Population and Characteristics of Associates. Pension cost is directly related to the number of associates covered by the plan and characteristics such as salary, age, years of service and benefit terms. In an effort to control expenses, Trustmarks Board of Directors voted to freeze Capital Accumulation Plan benefits effective May 15, 2009.Associates have not earned additional benefits, except for interest as required by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) regulations, since the plan was frozen. Associates will retain their previously earned pension benefits. At December 31, 2015, the pension plan census totaled 2,189 current and former associates. 

The discount rate utilized in determining the present value of the future benefit obligation is currently 3.86% (as compared to 3.57% at December 31, 2014 ).The discount rate for the plan is determined by matching the expected cash flows of the plan to a yield curve based on long term, high quality fixed income debt instruments available as of the measurement date (December 31, 2015 ).The discount rate is reset annually on the measurement date to reflect current economic conditions. If Trustmark assumes a 1.00% increase or decrease in the discount rate for Trustmarks qualified defined benefit pension plan and kept all other assumptions constant, the benefit cost associated with the plan would decrease or increase by approximately $1.5 million and $1.7 million, respectively. 

Expected Long-Term Rate of Return on Plan Assets. Based on historical experience and market projection of the target asset allocation set forth in the investment policy for the Capital Accumulation Plan, the pre-tax expected rate of return on the plan assets used in 2015 was 7.00%, versus 7.50% in 2014.This expected rate of return is dependent upon the asset allocation decisions made with respect to plan assets. Annual differences, if any, between expected and actual return are included in the unrecognized net actuarial gain or loss amount. Trustmark generally amortizes any cumulative unrecognized net actuarial gain or loss in excess of 10% of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or the fair value of the plan assets. If Trustmark assumes a 1.00% increase or decrease in the expected long-term rate of return for the Capital Accumulation Plan, holding all other actuarial assumptions constant, the pension cost would decrease or increase by approximately $742 thousand. 

Recognition of Actual Asset Returns. Trustmark utilizes the provisions of FASB ASC Topic 715, Compensation  Retirement Benefits, which allow for the use of asset values that smoothes investment gains and losses over a period of up to five years. This could partially mitigate the impact of short-term gains or losses on reported net income. 

Other Actuarial Assumptions. To estimate the projected benefit obligation, actuarial assumptions are required to be made by Management, including mortality rate, retirement rate, disability rate and the rate of compensation increases. For 2015, a new mortality table (RP- 2014 ) was applied to calculate the benefit cost. The new table reflects longer life expectancies and resulted in an increase in benefit cost of approximately $1.7 million. 

Trustmark estimates contingent liabilities based on Managements evaluation of the probability of outcomes and their ability to estimate the range of exposure. As stated in FASB ASC Topic 450, Contingencies, a liability is contingent if the amount is not presently known but may become known in the future as a result of the occurrence of some uncertain future event. Accounting standards require that a liability be recorded if Management determines that it is probable that a loss has occurred, and the loss can be reasonably estimated. It is implicit in this standard that it must be probable that the loss will be confirmed by some future event. As part of the estimation process, Management is required to make assumptions about matters that are, by their nature, highly uncertain. The assessment of contingent liabilities, including legal contingencies and income tax liabilities, involves the use of critical estimates, assumptions and judgments. Managements estimates are based on their belief that future events will validate the current assumptions regarding the ultimate outcome of these exposures. However, there can be no assurance that future events, such as court decisions or IRS positions, will not differ from Managements assessments. Whenever practicable, Management consults with outside experts (attorneys, consultants, claims administrators, etc.) to assist with the gathering and evaluation of information related to contingent liabilities. 

For information regarding legislation and regulation applicable to Trustmark, see the section captioned Supervision and Regulation included in Part I.   1. Business  of this report. 

In addition to capital ratios defined by GAAP and banking regulators, Trustmark utilizes various tangible common equity measures when evaluating capital utilization and adequacy. Tangible common equity, as defined by Trustmark, represents common equity less goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. 

Trustmark believes these measures are important because they reflect the level of capital available to withstand unexpected market conditions. Additionally, presentation of these measures allows readers to compare certain aspects of Trustmarks capitalization to other organizations. These ratios differ from capital measures defined by banking regulators principally in that the numerator excludes shareholders equity associated with preferred securities, the nature and extent of which varies across organizations. These calculations are intended to complement the capital ratios defined by GAAP and banking regulators. Because GAAP does not include these capital ratio measures, Trustmark believes there are no comparable GAAP financial measures to these tangible common equity ratios. Despite the importance of these measures to Trustmark, there are no standardized definitions for them and, as a result, Trustmarks calculations may not be comparable with other organizations. Also, there may be limits in the usefulness of these measures to investors. As a result, Trustmark encourages readers to consider its audited consolidated financial statements and the notes related thereto in their entirety and not to rely on any single financial measure. 

Trustmark discloses certain non-GAAP financial measures, including net income adjusted for significant non-routine transactions, because Management uses these measures for business planning purposes, including to manage Trustmarks business against internal projected results of operations and to measure Trustmarks performance. Trustmark views net income adjusted for significant non-routine transactions as a measure of our core operating business, which excludes the impact of the  s detailed below, as these  s are generally not operational in nature. This non-GAAP measure also provides another basis for comparing period-to-period results as presented in the accompanying selected financial data table and the audited consolidated financial statements by excluding potential differences caused by non-operational and unusual or non-recurring  s. Readers are cautioned that these adjustments are not permitted under GAAP.Trustmark encourages readers to consider its audited consolidated financial statements and the notes related thereto, included in Part II.   8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this report, in their entirety, and not to rely on any single financial measure. 

Net interest income is the principal component of Trustmarks income stream and represents the difference, or spread, between interest and fee income generated from earning assets and the interest expense paid on deposits and borrowed funds. Fluctuations in interest rates, as well as volume and mix changes in earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, can materially impact net interest income. The net interest margin is computed by dividing fully taxable equivalent (FTE) net interest income by average interest-earning assets and measures how effectively Trustmark utilizes its interest-earning assets in relationship to the interest cost of funding them. The accompanying Yield/Rate Analysis Table shows the average balances for all assets and liabilities of Trustmark and the interest income or expense associated with earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. The yields and rates have been computed based upon interest income and expense adjusted to a FTE basis using a 35% federal marginal tax rate for all periods shown. Loans on nonaccrual have been included in the average loan balances, and interest collected prior to these loans having been placed on nonaccrual has been included in interest income. Loan fees included in interest associated with the average loan balances are immaterial. 

During 2015, interest and fees on LHFS and LHFI-FTE increased $11.8 million, or 4.3%, when compared to 2014, due to growth in LHFI, while the yield on loans (LHFS and LHFI) fell 15 basis points to 4.28% due to downward repricing of LHFI due to the current interest rate environment and related competitive pressures. During 2015, interest and fees on acquired loans decreased $25.6 million, or 33.3%, compared to 2014, due to declines in accretion income as acquired loans continue to pay-down as well as a decline in recoveries on loan pay-offs of loans acquired in connection with the February 2013 merger with BancTrust. As a result, the yield on acquired loans decreased to 11.06% compared to 11.52% during 2014.As a result of these factors, interest income-FTE decreased $14.0 million, or 3.2%, during 2015 compared to 2014.The impact of these changes is also illustrated by the decline in the yield on total earning assets, which fell from 4.24% for 2014 to 3.97% for 2015, a decrease of 27 basis points. 

Average interest-bearing liabilities for 2015 totaled $7.890 billion compared to $7.785 billion for 2014, an increase of $104.6 million, or 1.3%.Average interest-bearing deposits for 2015 decreased $211.3 million, or 3.0%, when compared to 2014, principally due to declines in certificates of deposits, reflecting Trustmarks continued efforts to reduce high-cost deposit balances and customers continued movement away from longer-term commitments as a result of the low interest rate environment. The combination of average federal funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase agreements and other borrowings increased $315.8 million, or 43.4%, when 2015 is compared to 2014, which was primarily attributable to increased balances of short-term FHLB advances obtained from the FHLB of Dallas as well as federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements as Trustmark chose to utilize these less costly sources of funding. Total interest expense during 2015 decreased $1.1 million, or 5.0%, when compared with 2014, principally due to the $2.7 million, or 17.8%, decrease in interest expense on deposit accounts as a result of the decline in interest-bearing deposits. As a result of these factors, the overall yield on interest-bearing liabilities declined 2 basis points to 0.26% when 2015 is compared with 2014. 

Net interest income-FTE during 2014 increased $17.8 million, or 4.4%, when compared with 2013.The net interest margin increased 2 basis points to 4.03% during 2014 when compared with 2013.The increase in the net interest margin was primarily a result of $2.7 million of yield maintenance payments on prepaid securities received during the year, which are included in net interest income, and lower deposit and short-term borrowing costs, which were partially offset by a downward repricing of LHFI in response to increased competitive pricing pressures. The net interest margin excluding acquired loans, which equals the reported net interest income-FTE excluding interest and fees on acquired loans, as a percentage of average earning assets excluding average acquired loans, for 2014 was 3.52%, a decrease of 3 basis points when compared to 2013. 

Average interest-earning assets for 2014 were $10.445 billion compared to $10.052 billion for 2013, an increase of $393.2 million, or 3.9%.The growth in average earning assets was primarily due to an increase in average loans (LHFS and LHFI) of $472.8 million, or 8.2%, and average securities-taxable of $98.1 million, or 3.1%, during 2014.The increase in average total loans (LHFS and LHFI) was primarily attributable to net increases in all categories of the LHFI portfolio. See the section captioned LHFI elsewhere in this discussion for further analysis of the changes in the LHFI portfolio. The increase in average securities-taxable was primarily attributable to purchases of GSE guaranteed securities, partially offset by maturities and pay-downs of the loans underlying these securities, as well as inclusion of the securities acquired in the BancTrust merger for the entire twelve months of 2014. 

During 2014, interest on securities-taxable increased $7.3 million, or 10.1%, as the yield on taxable securities increased 15 basis points to 2.42% when compared with 2013 due to re-investments in higher yielding securities and $2.7 million of yield maintenance payments on prepaid securities. During 2014, interest and fees on LHFS and LHFI-FTE increased $6.2 million, or 2.3%, while the yield on loans (LHFS and LHFI) fell 25 basis points to 4.43% when compared to 2013 due to downward repricing of LHFI due to the current interest rate environment and increased competitive pressures. 

Average interest-bearing liabilities for 2014 totaled $7.785 billion compared to $7.575 billion for 2013, an increase of $210.7 million, or 2.8%.During 2014, average interest-bearing deposits decreased $1.0 million as growth in savings and interest-bearing demand deposits was more than offset by declines in certificates of deposits. The combination of federal funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase agreements and other borrowings increased by $211.8 million, or 41.0%, during 2014, which was primarily attributable to increased balances of federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements as well as short-term FHLB advances obtained from the FHLB of Dallas during the second half of 2014 as Trustmark chose to utilize these less costly sources of funding. Total interest expense for 2014 decreased $4.3 million, or 16.7%, when compared with 2013, principally due to the $4.4 million, or 22.3%, decrease in interest expense on deposit accounts as a result of a reduction in rates paid on certificates of deposit. As a result of these factors, the overall yield on interest-bearing liabilities declined 6 basis points to 0.28% when 2014 is compared with 2013. 

The change in interest due to both volume and yield or rate has been allocated to change due to volume and change due to yield or rate in proportion to the absolute value of the change in each. Tax-exempt income has been adjusted to a tax equivalent basis using a tax rate of 35% for each of the three years presented. The balances of nonaccrual loans and related income recognized have been included for purposes of these computations. 

The provision for loan losses, LHFI is determined by Management as the amount necessary to adjust the allowance for loan losses, LHFI to a level, which, in Managements best estimate, is necessary to absorb probable losses within the existing loan portfolio. The provision for loan losses, LHFI reflects loan quality trends, including the levels of and trends related to nonaccrual LHFI, past due LHFI, potential problem LHFI, criticized LHFI, net charge-offs or recoveries and growth in the LHFI portfolio among other factors. Accordingly, the amount of the provision reflects the necessary increases in the allowance for loan losses, LHFI related to newly identified criticized LHFI, as well as the actions taken related to other LHFI including, among other things, any necessary increases or decreases in required allowances for specific loans or loan pools. The provision for loan losses, LHFI totaled $8.4 million for 2015, $1.2 million for 2014 and a negative $13.4 million for 2013.See the section captioned Allowance for Loan Losses, LHFI for further analysis of the provision for loan losses, LHFI. 

The provision for loan losses, acquired loans is reflected as a valuation allowance netted against the carrying value of the acquired loans accounted for under FASB ASC Topic 310 - 30.The decrease in the provision for loan losses, acquired loans during 2015 was principally due to an increase in recoveries of acquired loans, partially offset by increased charge-offs during 2015 compared to 2014, and changes in expectations based on the periodic re-estimations performed during the period, primarily related to loans acquired from BancTrust. The increase in the provision for loan losses, acquired loans during 2014 was primarily due to increases in the provision for loan losses, acquired loans for loans acquired from Bay Bank and Heritage, which was partially offset by declines in the provision for loan losses, acquired loans for loans acquired from BancTrust as a result of changes in expectations based on the periodic re-estimations performed during the year. 

Changes in various components of noninterest income are discussed in further detail below. For analysis of Trustmarks insurance commissions and wealth management income, please see the section captioned Results of Segment Operations. 

The decline in service charges on deposit accounts when 2015 is compared to 2014 was principally due to a $1.8 million, or 5.1%, decrease in NSF and overdraft charges on consumer deposit accounts and a $297 thousand, or 15.4%, decrease in NSF and overdraft charges on commercial demand deposit accounts, which was partially offset by a $585 thousand, or 10.1%, increase in service charges on commercial demand deposit accounts. The decline in NSF and overdraft charges on deposit accounts during 2015 was primarily the result of a decrease in the number of customer transactions that would result in an NSF or overdraft charge as customers have more availability to complete banking transactions through mobile and online banking sites as well as extended hours for making deposits at Trustmarks ATMs. 

Service charges on deposit accounts decreased when comparing 2014 with 2013, primarily due to declines in NSF and overdraft fees on consumer demand deposit accounts. The declines in the NSF and overdraft fees primarily resulted from a decrease in the number of occurrences of NSFs and overdrafts as Trustmark made enhancements to provide customers with access to information regarding pending debit card signature transactions and extended the hours customers are capable of making deposits at Trustmark ATMs. 

Bank card and other fees consist primarily of fees earned on bank card products as well as fees on various bank products and services and safe deposit box fees. The decrease in bank card and other fees for 2015 when compared to 2014 was primarily the result of declines in interchange income. 

Bank card and other fees for 2014 decreased when compared to 2013, which was primarily the result of declines in interchange income and the fair value of Trustmarks proprietary position in interest rate swaps entered into with qualified commercial borrowing customers, which was partially offset by growth in ATM transaction income. See the section captioned Derivatives for additional information related to the derivative products offered to qualified commercial borrowing customers. 

The FRB has issued rules under the EFTA, as amended by the Dodd-Frank Act, to limit interchange fees that an issuer may receive or charge for an electronic debit card transaction. See the section captioned Debit Interchange Regulation included in Part I.   1. Business  of this report. As a result of the regulations, Trustmarks noninterest income declined $11.5 million during 2015 compared to $5.4 million during 2014. 

The increase in net revenue from mortgage banking during 2015 was principally due to an increase in gain on sales of loans, net partially offset by a decline in the net positive hedge ineffectiveness. The decrease in net revenue from mortgage banking during 2014 was principally due to lower gains on secondary marketing sales, which was partially offset by the net valuation increase in the fair value of LHFS, interest rate lock commitments and forward sale contracts and growth in mortgage servicing fee income. Mortgage loan production increased $290.0 million, or 24.3%, during 2015 to total $1.482 billion, reflecting industry-wide improvements in real estate and construction activity as well as increased mortgage lending activity due to low mortgage rates. In addition, during the second quarter of 2015, Trustmark expanded its mortgage banking capabilities with the addition of ten mortgage producers in the Alabama and Florida market regions. Mortgage loan production decreased $258.4 million, or 17.8%, during 2014 to total $1.192 billion, which reflected the industry-wide decline in refinance activity following an extended low interest rate environment. Loans serviced for others totaled $5.971 billion at December 31, 2015, compared with $5.636 billion at December 31, 2014, and $5.461 billion at December 31, 2013. 

Representing a significant component of mortgage banking income is gain on the sales of loans, net. The increase in the gain on sales of loans, net during 2015 resulted from increases in the volume of loan sales and higher profit margins from secondary marketing activities. The decrease in the gain on sales of loans, net during 2014 resulted from declines in the volume of loan sales and lower profit margins from secondary marketing activities due to the tightening of interest rate spreads during the year. Loan sales increased $332.8 million during 2015 to total $1.246 billion compared to a decrease of $444.0 million during 2014 to total $913.5 million. The increase in loans sales during 2015 was due to increased mortgage lending activity and Trustmarks decision to sell the vast majority of these lower-rate, longer-term home mortgages in the secondary market, rather than replacing the run-off in its single-family loan portfolio. 

Other mortgage banking income, net includes the net valuation adjustment recognized in income in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 825, Financial Instruments, for the fair value of LHFS accounted for under the fair value option and the net valuation adjustment recognized in income in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging, for the fair value of interest rate lock commitments and forward sales contracts. Valuation adjustments are primarily the result of changes in volume and profit margins for the related instruments during the period. The decrease in other mortgage banking income, net when comparing 2015 with 2014 primarily resulted from an increase in the net valuation adjustment in the fair value of LHFS, interest rate lock commitments and forward sales contracts during the period, which was principally due to higher increases in profit margins during 2014 offset partially by higher increases in volumes during 2015.The increase in other mortgage banking income, net when comparing 2014 with 2013 primarily resulted from an increase in the net valuation adjustment in the fair value of LHFS, interest rate lock commitments and forward sales contracts during the period. For additional information regarding the LHFS accounted for under the fair value option, please see the section captioned Fair Value Option included in Note 19  Fair Value set forth in Part II.   8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this report. See the section captioned Derivatives for further discussion of the mortgage related derivative instruments. 

The decrease in other income, net during 2015 was primarily the result of a decline in other miscellaneous income due to a net loss on the sale of a former bank branch acquired in the merger with BancTrust during the first quarter of 2015, a decrease in the amount of revenues received during 2015 related to Trustmarks non-qualified deferred compensation plan and a one-time arrangement fee received during the second quarter of 2014 ; a decrease in the net cash surrender value related to Trustmarks supplemental employee retirement plan and the increase in the net reduction of the FDIC indemnification asset primarily due to increases in the amortization of the FDIC indemnification asset and the negative valuation adjustments for covered acquired loans, which was partially offset by the decrease in partnership amortization for tax credit purposes. The increase in other income, net during 2014 was primarily the result of an increase in the cash surrender value of bank-owned life insurance, principally due to Trustmarks $100.0 million investment in bank-owned life insurance in September 2013, and the decrease in the net reduction of the FDIC indemnification asset resulting from loan pay-offs and changes in expected cash flows and loss expectations of acquired covered loans. 

Changes in the various component of noninterest expense are discussed in further detail below. Management considers disciplined expense management a key area of focus in the support of improving shareholder value. 

The increase in salaries and employee benefits during 2014 primarily reflected salaries and employee benefits attributable to the BancTrust operations for a full twelve months, modest general merit increases, higher commissions expense resulting from improved performance in Trustmarks Insurance and Wealth Management Divisions, and increases in general performance incentives expense. These increases in salaries and employee benefits were partially offset by a decrease in Trustmarks Capital Accumulation Plan pension expense due to lower actuarially-determined rates, a decline in severance expenses due to non-routine transaction expenses from the merger with BancTrust incurred during 2013 and a decrease in commission expense resulting from declines in mortgage loan originations. Excluding the decline in pension expense due to actuarially-determined rates and the termination of the BancTrust Pension Plan and the decline in severance expenses due to non-routine transaction expenses from the merger with BancTrust, salaries and employee benefits for 2014 increased $10.3 million, or 4.6%, relative to 2013. 

The decrease in ORE/Foreclosure expense during 2015 was principally due to a decrease in the provision for other real estate write-downs as well as declines in other real estate carrying costs. The decrease in ORE/Foreclosure expense during 2014 was primarily due to the increase in the net gain on the sale of other real estate and a decrease in write-downs of other real estate, which was partially offset by an increase in the provision for other real estate write-downs. The net gain on sale of other real estate for 2015 totaled $4.0 million, compared to a net gain on the sale of other real estate for 2014 of $3.7 million and to a net loss on the sale of other real estate of $772 thousand for 2013.For additional analysis of other real estate and foreclosure expenses, please see the section captioned Nonperforming Assets, Excluding Acquired Loans and Covered Other Real Estate. 

The increase in FDIC assessment expense for 2015 and 2014 primarily resulted from the increase in Trustmarks assessment base. As required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC revised the deposit insurance assessment system to base assessments on the average total consolidated assets of insured depository institutions less the average tangible equity during the assessment period. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act requires the minimum reserve ratio for the Deposit Insurance Fund be increased from 1.15% to 1.35% of estimated insurable deposits, or the comparable percentage of the assessment base, by September 30, 2020.The FDIC must offset the effect of the increase in the minimum reserve ratio on insured depository institutions with total consolidated assets of less than $10.0 billion. With total assets greater than $10.0 billion at December 31, 2013, Trustmark lost the benefit of this offset beginning in the second quarter 2014.The change in the assessment methodology was immaterial to Trustmarks results of operations. 

The decline in other expenses during 2014 was primarily due to declines in non-routine transaction expenses on acquisition, which were incurred during 2013 as a result of the merger with BancTrust, loan expense and other miscellaneous expense. The decrease in loan expense during 2014 was primarily due to declines in other loan expense, mortgage loan putback expense and mortgage loan compensatory fees. The decrease in other miscellaneous expense during 2014 was principally due to the non-routine litigation expense related to the settlement of the NSF and overdraft litigation incurred during 2013, which was partially offset by increases in other miscellaneous expenses due primarily to increases in ATM and debit card processing expenses, sponsorships and charitable contributions and insurance expenses. 

Trustmarks operations are managed along three operating segments: General Banking Division, Wealth Management Division and Insurance Division. A description of each segment and the methodologies used to measure financial performance and financial information by reportable segment are included in Note 21  Segment Information located in Part II.   8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this report. During 2014, Trustmark revised the composition of its operating segments by moving the Private Banking group from the Wealth Management Division to the General Banking Division as a result of a change in supervision of this group for segment reporting purposes. Prior period financial information by reportable segment includes the appropriate reclassifications to conform to the current period presentation. 

Net interest income for the General Banking Division for 2015 decreased $13.1 million, or 3.2%, when compared with 2014.The decline in net interest income was mostly due to declines in interest and fees on acquired loans, which was partially offset by an increase in interest and fees on LHFS and LHFI and declines in the cost of interest-bearing deposits. Net interest income for the General Banking Division for 2014 increased $16.6 million, or 4.3%, when compared with 2013.The growth in net interest income was mostly due to increases in taxable interest on securities and interest and fees on LHFS and LHFI as well as modest declines in the cost of interest-bearing deposits. The provision for loan losses, net during 2015 totaled $11.8 million compared with $7.4 million during 2014 and a negative $7.4 million during 2013.For more information on these net interest income  s, please see the sections captioned Financial Highlights and Results of Operations. 

Noninterest income for the General Banking Division decreased $2.0 million, or 1.8%, during 2015 compared to a decrease of $6.1 million, or 5.4%, during 2014.Noninterest income for the General Banking Division represented 21.2% of total revenues for 2015, 21.0% for 2014 and 22.7% for 2013.Noninterest income for the General Banking Division includes service charges on deposit accounts; bank card and other fees; mortgage banking, net; other, net and securities gains, net. For more information on these noninterest income  s, please see the analysis included in the section captioned Noninterest Income. 

During 2015, net income for the Wealth Management Division decreased $372 thousand, or 8.8%, compared to an increase of $661 thousand, or 18.6%, during 2014.Net interest income for the Wealth Management Division declined $514 thousand, or 60.4%, during 2015 due to a decrease in the interest income earned on deposit accounts held by the Wealth Management Division. Noninterest income, which includes income related to investment management, trust and brokerage services, decreased $964 thousand, or 3.0%, during 2015, compared to an increase of $2.8 million, or 9.4% during 2014.The decrease in noninterest income for the Wealth Management Division during 2015 was primarily attributable to declines in fixed annuity income and commissions generated by the brokerage services unit and trust management fees, partially offset by growth in asset management fees and variable annuity income generated by the brokerage services unit. The increase in noninterest income for the Wealth Management Division during 2014 was primarily attributable to trust management fees on new business (principally in the personal trust group), the addition of BancTrust for a full twelve months and fixed annuity income generated by the brokerage services unit. Noninterest expense decreased $1.4 million, or 5.2%, during 2015 compared to an increase of $2.0 million, or 8.2%, during 2014.The decrease in noninterest expense for the Wealth Management Division during 2015 was principally due to a legal reserve recorded during 2014.The increase in noninterest expense for the Wealth Management Division during 2014 was primarily due to increases in salaries and employee benefits expense. The increase in salaries and benefits expense for the Wealth Management Division was primarily due to modest general merit increases, higher commission and trust incentive expense resulting from improved performance in the Wealth Management Division and the addition of BancTrust. 

Net income for the Insurance Division during 2015 increased $980 thousand, or 21.9%, compared to a decrease of $20 thousand, or 0.5%, during 2014.Noninterest income for the Insurance Division increased $3.0 million, or 8.8%, during 2015, compared to an increase of $2.6 million, or 8.5%, during 2014.The increase in insurance commissions during 2015 was due to new business commission volume primarily in commercial property and casualty and group health coverage, resulting from both a continued focus on new business and the recent addition of experienced account executives with an established book of business. The increase in noninterest income during 2014 was due to new business commission volume primarily in group health and commercial property and casualty coverage. General business activity continues to improve marginally, resulting in increases in the demand for coverage on inventories, property, equipment, general liability and workers compensation. 

Noninterest expense for the Insurance Division increased $1.5 million, or 5.5%, during 2015 and $2.6 million, or 10.8%, during 2014.The increase in noninterest expense during 2015 was primarily due to higher commissions and salaries expense resulting from improved performance in the Insurance Division and modest general merit increases and higher services and fees expense resulting from increases in professional fees and software maintenance fees. The increase in noninterest expense during 2014 was primarily due to higher commissions expense resulting from improved performance in the Insurance Division. 

During 2015, business conditions improved slightly in the markets served by FBBI.Trustmark performed an annual impairment test of the book value of capital held in the Insurance Division as of October 1, 2015, 2014, and 2013.Based on this analysis, Trustmark concluded that no impairment charge was required. A renewed period of falling prices and suppressed demand for the products of the Insurance Division may result in impairment of goodwill in the future. FBBIs ability to maintain the current income trend is dependent on the success of the subsidiarys continued initiatives to attract new business through cross referrals between practice units and bank relationships and seeking new business in other markets. 

Earning assets serve as the primary revenue streams for Trustmark and are comprised of securities, loans, federal funds sold, securities purchased under reverse repurchase agreements and other earning assets. Average earning assets totaled $10.791 billion, or 88.0% of total average assets, at December 31, 2015, compared with $10.445 billion, or 86.8% of total average assets, at December 31, 2014, an increase of $345.8 million, or 3.3%. 

The securities portfolio is utilized by Management to manage interest rate risk, generate interest income, provide liquidity and use as collateral for public and wholesale funding. Risk and return can be adjusted by altering duration, composition and/or balance of the portfolio. The weighted-average life of the portfolio increased to 5.2 years at December 31, 2015, compared to 3.9 years at December 31, 2014.The increase in the weighted-average life of the portfolio in 2015 was primarily due to lowering of the mortgage prepayment estimates. 

When compared with December 31, 2014, total investment securities decreased by $12.0 million during 2015.This decrease resulted primarily from declines in the fair market value of the available for sale securities. Trustmark sold no securities during 2015, compared with $56.5 million during 2014, which generated a net gain of $300 thousand. 

During 2013, Trustmark reclassified approximately $1.099 billion of securities available for sale as securities held to maturity to mitigate the potential adverse impact of a rising interest rate environment on the fair value of the available for sale securities and the related impact on tangible common equity. The securities were transferred at fair value, which became the cost basis for the securities held to maturity. At the date of transfer, the net unrealized holding loss on the available for sale securities totaled approximately $46.6 million. The net unrealized holding loss is amortized over the remaining life of the securities as a yield adjustment in a manner consistent with the amortization or accretion of the original purchase premium or discount on the associated security. There were no gains or losses recognized as a result of the transfer. 

Available for sale securities are carried at their estimated fair value with unrealized gains or losses recognized, net of taxes, in AOCL, a separate component of shareholders equity. At December 31, 2015, available for sale securities totaled $2.345 billion, which represented 66.4% of the securities portfolio, compared to $2.375 billion, or 67.0%, at December 31, 2014.At December 31, 2015, unrealized gains, net on available for sale securities totaled $5.9 million compared to $22.6 million at December 31, 2014.At December 31, 2015, available for sale securities consisted of obligations of states and political subdivisions, GSE guaranteed mortgage-related securities, direct obligations of government agencies and GSEs and asset-backed securities and structured financial products. 

Held to maturity securities are carried at amortized cost and represent those securities that Trustmark both intends and has the ability to hold to maturity. At December 31, 2015, held to maturity securities totaled $1.188 billion and represented 33.6% of the total securities portfolio, compared with $1.171 billion, or 33.0%, at December 31, 2014. 

Mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations are included in maturity categories based on their stated maturity date. Expected maturities may differ from contractual maturities because issuers may have the right to call or prepay obligations. 

Management continues to focus on asset quality as one of the strategic goals of the securities portfolio, which is evidenced by the investment of approximately 94% of the portfolio in GSE-backed obligations and other Aaa-rated securities as determined by Moodys Investors Services (Moodys).None of the securities owned by Trustmark are collateralized by assets which are considered sub-prime. Furthermore, outside of stock ownership in the FHLB of Dallas, FHLB of Atlanta and Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, Trustmark does not hold any other equity investment in a GSE. 

As of December 31, 2015, Trustmark did not hold securities of any one issuer with a carrying value exceeding ten percent of total shareholders equity, other than certain GSEs which are exempt from inclusion. Management continues to closely monitor the credit quality as well as the ratings of the debt and mortgage-backed securities issued by the GSEs and held in Trustmarks securities portfolio. 

The table above presenting the credit rating of Trustmarks securities is formatted to show the securities according to the credit rating category, and not by category of the underlying security. At December 31, 2015, approximately 93.8% of the available for sale securities and 95.3% of held to maturity securities were rated Aaa. 

At December 31, 2015, LHFS totaled $160.2 million, consisting of $124.2 million of residential real estate mortgage loans in the process of being sold to third parties and $36.0 million of GNMA optional repurchase loans. At December 31, 2014, LHFS totaled $132.2 million, consisting of $91.2 million of residential real estate mortgage loans in the process of being sold to third parties and $41.0 million of GNMA optional repurchase loans. Please refer to the nonperforming assets table that follows for information on GNMA loans eligible for repurchase which are past due 90 days or more. 

During 2015, Trustmark exercised its option to repurchase approximately $28.5 million delinquent loans serviced for GNMA.These loans were subsequently sold to a third party under different repurchase provisions. Trustmark retained the servicing for these loans, which are subject to guarantees by FHA/VA.As a result of this repurchase and sale, the loans are no longer carried as LHFS.The transaction resulted in a gain of $304 thousand, which is included in mortgage banking, net for 2015.Trustmark did not exercise its buy-back option on any delinquent loans serviced for GNMA during 2014. 

For additional information regarding the GNMA optional repurchase loans, please see the section captioned Past Due LHFS included in Note 5  LHFI and Allowance for Loan Losses, LHFI of Part II.   8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this report. 

LHFI secured by real estate increased $360.7 million, or 8.9%, during 2015 as growth in in the Alabama, Texas and Mississippi market regions was partially offset by declines in the Tennessee and Florida market regions. The most significant growth was from LHFI secured by construction, land development and other land which increased $204.8 million, or 33.0%, during 2015, primarily due to growth in other construction loans and 1 - 4 family construction. Other construction loans increased $185.7 million, or 68.7%, during 2015, due to growth across all five of Trustmarks market regions. During 2015, $152.9 million in other construction loans were moved to the appropriate permanent categories upon completion, including $101.4 million in non-owner occupied, $30.8 million in owner occupied and $20.7 million in multi-family residential. Excluding all reclassifications between loan categories, growth in other construction loans was $330.9 million for 2015.The 1 - 4 family construction loan portfolio increased $18.3 million, or 13.4%, during 2015, principally due to growth in Trustmarks Alabama, Mississippi, Texas and Florida market regions. 

The commercial real estate loan portfolio increased $183.3 million, or 11.8%, during 2015.The increase in the commercial real estate loan portfolio was primarily attributable to increases in non-owner occupied loans in Trustmarks Alabama, Texas and Mississippi market regions, principally due to construction loans moved to permanent financing, partially offset by declines in Trustmarks Florida and Tennessee market regions, and increases in owner occupied loans in Trustmarks Alabama, Mississippi, Florida and Texas market regions. Other real estate secured LHFI decreased $42.6 million, or 16.8%, during 2015, primarily due to decreases in multi-family residential loans in the Mississippi and Tennessee market regions. 

The commercial and industrial loan portfolio increased $72.9 million, or 5.7%, during 2015, principally in the Tennessee, Texas and Alabama market regions, partially offset by declines in the Mississippi market region. Trustmarks exposure to the energy sector is primarily included in the commercial and industrial loan portfolio in Trustmarks Mississippi and Texas market regions. At December 31, 2015 and 2014, energy-related LHFI had outstanding balances of approximately $213.0 million and $208.0 million, respectively, which represented approximately 3.0% of Trustmarks total LHFI portfolio for both years. Trustmark has no loan exposure where the source of repayment, or the underlying security of such exposure, is tied to the realization of value from energy reserves. Should oil prices remain at current levels or below for a prolonged period of time, there is potential for downgrades to occur. Management will continue to monitor this exposure. 

State and other political subdivision LHFI increased $131.9 million, or 21.9%, during 2015 principally due to growth in traditional public finance loans, such as investments that entail the use of tax anticipation notes, public school improvements, facility improvements and renovations, in Trustmarks Mississippi, Texas, Alabama and Tennessee market regions. The other loan portfolio, which includes lending to nonprofits and real estate investment trusts, increased $75.3 million, or 21.7%, during 2015, which primarily represented growth in Trustmarks Mississippi, Texas and Alabama market regions. 

Due to the increased risk associated with second liens, loan terms and underwriting guidelines differ from those used for products secured by first liens. Loan amounts and loan-to-value ratios are limited and are lower for second liens than first liens. Also, interest rates and maximum amortization periods are adjusted accordingly. In addition, regardless of lien position, the passing credit score for approval of all home equity lines of credit is higher than that of term loans. The allowance for loan losses, LHFI is also reflective of the increased risk related to second liens through application of a greater loss factor to this portion of the portfolio. 

In the following tables, LHFI reported by region (along with related nonperforming assets and net charge-offs) are associated with location of origination except for loans secured by 1 - 4 family residential properties (representing traditional mortgages) and credit cards. These loans are included in the Mississippi market region because they are centrally analyzed and approved as part of a specific line of business located at Trustmarks headquarters in Jackson, Mississippi. 

At December 31, 2015, Trustmark held alt A mortgages with an aggregate principal balance of $1.4 million ( 0.03% of total LHFI secured by real estate at that date) compared to $1.5 million ( 0.04% of total LHFI secured by real estate at that date) at December 31, 2014.These alt A loans have been originated by Trustmark as an accommodation to certain Trustmark customers for whom Trustmark determined that such loans were suitable under the purposes of the FNMA alt A program and under Trustmarks loan origination standards. Trustmark does not have any no-interest loans, other than a small number of loans made to customers that are charitable organizations, the aggregate amount of which is not material to Trustmarks financial condition or results of operations. 

Due to the short-term nature of most commercial real estate lending and the practice of annual renewal of commercial lines of credit, approximately one-third of Trustmarks portfolio matures in less than one year. Such a short-term maturity profile is not unusual for a commercial bank and provides Trustmark the opportunity to obtain updated financial information from its borrowers and to actively monitor its borrowers creditworthiness. This maturity profile is well matched with many of Trustmarks sources of funding, which are also short-term in nature. 

Trustmarks allowance for loan loss methodology is based on guidance provided in SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. Trustmarks allowance has been developed using different factors to estimate losses based upon specific evaluation of identified individual LHFI considered impaired, estimated identified losses on various pools of LHFI and/or groups of risk rated LHFI with common risk characteristics and other external and internal factors of estimated probable losses based on other facts and circumstances. The level of Trustmarks allowance reflects Managements continuing evaluation of specific credit risks, loan loss experience, current loan portfolio growth, present economic, political and regulatory conditions and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. For a complete description of Trustmarks allowance for loan loss methodology and the quantitative and qualitative factors included in the valuation allowance, please see Note 5  LHFI and Allowance for Loan Losses, LHFI included in Part II.   8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this report. 

The provision for loan losses, LHFI represents the change in the estimated loan losses determined utilizing Trustmarks allowance for loan loss methodology net of charge-offs and recoveries of LHFI charged against net income. The provision for loan losses, LHFI, for 2015 totaled 0.12% of average loans (LHFS and LHFI), compared with 0.02% of average loans (LHFS and LHFI) in 2014 and - 0.23% of average loans (LHFS and LHFI) in 2013.The increase in the provision for loan losses, LHFI during 2015 resulted primarily from changes to Trustmarks allowance for loan loss methodology, an increase in charge-offs of LHFI, principally in the Mississippi and Texas market regions, a decline in recoveries on LHFI, principally in the Mississippi and Florida market regions, and a decline in the amount of reserves released, principally in the Texas and Florida market regions, compared to 2014.The increase in the provision during 2014 was primarily a result of an increase in the amount of established reserves for both new and existing impaired LHFI compared to 2013, changes in the quantitative and qualitative reserve factors and other changes in the LHFI portfolio, such as balance changes due to pay-offs and risk rate changes. 

During 2015, Trustmark made revisions to both the quantitative and qualitative portions of the allowance for loan loss methodology for commercial and consumer LHFI.In total, these revisions resulted in an additional provision expense of $9.5 million during 2015.For a complete description of the revisions made to Trustmarks allowance for loan loss methodology during 2015, please see Note 5  LHFI and Allowance for Loan Losses, LHFI included in Part II.   8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this report. 

Net changes to the provision for loan losses, LHFI were highest in Trustmarks Texas, Florida and Mississippi market regions when 2015 is compared to 2014.The provision for loan losses, LHFI for the Texas market region increased $5.4 million during 2015 primarily due to a decline in the amount of reserves released compared to 2014, a large substandard credit that was charged off during 2015, increases in reserves required based on balance and risk rate changes of LHFI and the additional provision expense recorded during 2015 due to the changes in the allowance for loan loss methodology. The $3.6 million increase in provision for the Florida market region was primarily due to the additional provision expense recorded during 2015 for changes in the allowance for loan loss methodology and a decline in recoveries, principally resulting from pay-downs received during 2014 of loans previously charged down partially offset by pay-downs received during 2015.The provision for loan losses, LHFI for the Mississippi market region declined $1.1 million primarily due to a decline in the amount of reserves required based on the qualitative reserve factor calculation and an increase in charge-offs principally due to the charge off of two large substandard credits during 2015, partially offset by an increase in the amount of reserves required based on the quantitative reserve factor calculation, a decrease in the amount of recoveries received during 2015 compared to 2014 and the additional provision expense recorded during 2015 as a result of changes in the allowance for loan loss methodology. 

Trustmark continues to devote significant resources to managing credit risks resulting from the slowdown in residential real estate developments. Management believes that the construction and land development portfolio is appropriately risk rated and adequately reserved based on current conditions. 

During 2015, nonaccrual LHFI decreased $24.0 million, or 30.3%, relative to December 31, 2014 to total $55.3 million, or 0.76% of total LHFI and LHFS.The decrease in nonaccrual LHFI was principally the result of substandard credits in Trustmarks Mississippi, Florida and Texas market regions that were paid off, charged off, foreclosed or paid down partially offset by LHFI migrating to nonaccrual status during 2015.For additional information regarding nonaccrual LHFI, see the section captioned Nonaccrual/Impaired LHFI in Note 5  LHFI and Allowance for Loan Losses, LHFI included in Part II.   8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this report. 

Write-downs of other real estate, excluding covered other real estate, decreased $4.8 million during 2015, compared to an increase of $1.3 million during 2014 and a decrease of $242 thousand during 2013.The decrease in write-downs on other real estate, excluding covered other real estate, during 2015 was the result of the $3.7 million decrease in the provision for other real estate write-downs due to provision recapture in Trustmarks Alabama, Tennessee and Mississippi market regions as reserves for other real estate write-downs previously recorded were used or released during the year, partially offset by provision expense in the Florida market region and decreases in write-downs on other real estate that was revalued during the year, principally in the Tennessee, Florida and Mississippi market regions. The increase in write-downs on other real estate, excluding covered other real estate, during 2014 was primarily the result of a $1.8 million increase in the reserve for write-downs of other real estate, principally in the Alabama market region, and write-downs on BancTrust related other real estate that was revalued during 2014, which were partially offset by declines in write-downs in the Tennessee and Texas market regions. The increase in write-downs on other real estate, excluding covered other real estate, in the Mississippi market region during 2014 was principally due to reserves released during 2013. 

For additional information regarding other real estate, including covered other real estate, see Note 10  Other Real Estate and Covered Other Real Estate included in Part II.   8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this report. 

During 2015, noncovered and covered acquired loans declined $153.1 million, or 29.11%, and $5.9 million, or 25.1%, respectively, compared to balances at December 31, 2014.The decrease in both noncovered and covered acquired loans during 2015 was primarily the result of pay-downs and pay-offs of these acquired loans. Based on the most recent re-estimation of expected cash flows, Trustmark anticipates that acquired loan balances, excluding any settlement of debt, will decline approximately $25.0 million to $30.0 million during the first quarter of 2016.Trustmark also expects the yield on the acquired loans, excluding any recoveries, to be approximately 5.5% to 6.5% for the first quarter of 2016.As the balances in the acquired loan portfolio continue to run-off, Trustmark expects that the income benefit provided by this portfolio will also decline. For additional information regarding acquired loans, including changes in the net carrying value, see Note 6  Acquired Loans included in Part II.   8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this report. 

Trustmarks deposits are its primary source of funding and consist of core deposits from the communities Trustmark serves. Deposits include interest-bearing and noninterest-bearing demand accounts, savings, money market, certificates of deposit and individual retirement accounts. Total deposits were $9.588 billion at December 31, 2015 compared to $9.698 billion at December 31, 2014, a decrease of $110.1 million, or 1.1%.Growth in noninterest-bearing deposits totaled $250.1 million, or 9.1%, and was more than offset by a decline in interest-bearing deposits of $360.2 million, or 5.2%, during 2015.The increase in noninterest-bearing deposits was attributable to growth in public, commercial and consumer demand deposit accounts. The decrease in interest-bearing deposits resulted primarily from the decline in public interest checking accounts, partially offset by growth in consumer and commercial interest checking accounts, and declines in time deposits as a result of Trustmarks continued efforts to reduce high-cost deposit balances and customers continued shift from longer-term commitments due to the low interest rate environment. 

Trustmark uses short-term borrowings to fund growth of earning assets in excess of deposit growth. Short-term borrowings consist primarily of federal funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase agreements, short-term FHLB advances and GNMA optional repurchase loans. Short-term borrowings totaled $853.7 million at December 31, 2015, a decrease of $15.0 million, or 1.7%, when compared with $868.6 million at December 31, 2014.Federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements totaled $441.0 million at December 31, 2015 compared to $443.5 million at December 31, 2014, a decrease of $2.5 million, or 0.6%.Of these amounts $144.0 million and $213.5 million, respectively, represented customer related transactions, such as commercial sweep repurchase balances. Excluding customer related transactions, federal funds purchased totaled $297.0 million at December 31, 2015, an increase of $67.0 million when compared with $230.0 million at December 31, 2014, as Trustmark increased its upstream federal funds purchased as a less costly source of funding. Other short-term borrowings decreased $12.5 million, or 2.9%, during 2015 primarily due to $6.8 million of outstanding short-term FHLB advances with the FHLB of Atlanta which matured during 2015 and a $5.0 million decline in GNMA loans eligible for repurchase. The decline in GNMA loans eligible for repurchase was due to $28.5 million of GNMA optional repurchase loans which were repurchased and subsequently sold during 2015 partially offset by GNMA loans which became eligible for repurchase during the 2015.For additional information regarding Trustmarks GNMA optional repurchase loans, please see the section captioned LHFS.For additional information regarding Trustmarks short-term FHLB advances, please see the section captioned Liquidity. 

As disclosed in Note 15  Defined Benefit and Other Postretirement Benefits included in Part II.   8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this report, Trustmark maintains a noncontributory tax-qualified defined benefit pension plan (Trustmark Capital Accumulation Plan), in which substantially all associates who began employment prior to 2007 participate. The plan provides retirement benefits that are based on the length of credited service and final average compensation, as defined in the plan, and vest upon three years of service. Benefit accruals under the plan have been frozen since 2009, with the exception of certain associates covered through plans obtained in acquisitions that were subsequently merged into the Trustmark plan. Other than the associates covered through these acquired plans that were merged into the Trustmark plan, associates have not earned additional benefits, except for interest as required by law, since the plan was frozen. Current and former associates who participate in the plan retain their right to receive benefits that accrued before the plan was frozen. 

As a result of the merger with BancTrust on February 15, 2013, Trustmark became the sponsor of the BancTrust Pension Plan, a tax-qualified defined benefit pension plan, which was frozen prior to the merger date. On January 28, 2014, Trustmarks Board of Directors authorized the termination of the BancTrust Pension Plan effective as of April 15, 2014.On October 1, 2015, Trustmark received a favorable determination letter from the IRS with respect to the plans termination. In addition, as required by law, a termination notice has been filed with the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC), and it is not anticipated that the PBGC will raise any issues with respect to the plans termination. During 2014, the assets of the BancTrust Pension plan were held in trust and distributed in conjunction with the plan termination. All assets of the BancTrust Pension Plan were distributed as of December 31, 2014.Benefits that were not paid to participants were annuitized under annuity contracts. As a result of the termination of the plan, Trustmark recognized a pre-tax gain of $1.2 million during 2014. 

At December 31, 2015, the fair value of plan assets for Trustmarks qualified defined benefit pension plan totaled $74.1 million and was exceeded by the projected benefit obligation of $91.4 million by $17.3 million. Net periodic benefit cost equaled $4.9 million in 2015, compared with $1.5 million in 2014 and $5.4 million in 2013. 

The fair value of plan assets is determined utilizing current market quotes, while the benefit obligation and periodic benefit costs are determined utilizing actuarial methodology with certain weighted-average assumptions. For 2015, 2014 and 2013, the process used to select the discount rate assumption under FASB ASC Topic 715 takes into account the benefit cash flow and the segmented yields on high-quality corporate bonds that would be available to provide for the payment of the benefit cash flow. Assumptions, which have been chosen to represent the estimate of a particular event as required by GAAP, have been reviewed and approved by Management based on recommendations from its actuaries. For additional information regarding the assumptions used by Management, please refer to the section captioned Critical Accounting Policies  Defined Benefit Plans. 

The range of potential contributions to the Trustmark Capital Accumulation Plan is determined annually by the plans actuary in accordance with applicable IRS rules and regulations. Trustmarks policy is to fund amounts that are sufficient to satisfy the annual minimum funding requirements and do not exceed the maximum that is deductible for federal income tax purposes. The actual amount of the contribution is determined annually based on the plans funded status and return on plan assets as of the measurement date, which is December 31.For the plan year ending December 31, 2015, Trustmarks minimum required contribution to the Trustmark Capital Accumulation Plan was zero. For the plan year ending December 31, 2014, Trustmark contributed approximately $1.0 million to the Trustmark Capital Accumulation Plan prior to the passage of the Highway and Transportation Funding Act (HATFA). HATFA extended the pension funding relief for several more years and was mandatory for 2014. As a result of HATFA, there was no minimum required contribution for the plan year ending December 31, 2014 ;therefore, no additional contributions were made during 2014.For the plan year ending December 31, 2016, Trustmarks minimum required contribution to the Trustmark Capital Accumulation Plan is expected to be zero; however, Management and the Board of Directors of Trustmark will monitor the plan throughout 2016 to determine any additional funding requirements by the plans measurement date. A contribution of $334 thousand was required during 2014 for the BancTrust Pension Plan in order to complete the plan termination. Since the plan has terminated, there will be no additional contributions required in the future. 

As disclosed in Note 15  Defined Benefit and Other Postretirement Benefits included in Part II.   8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this report, Trustmark maintains a nonqualified supplemental retirement plan covering key executive officers and senior officers as well as directors who have elected to defer fees. The plan provides for retirement and/or death benefits based on a participants covered salary or deferred fees. Although plan benefits may be paid from Trustmarks general assets, Trustmark has purchased life insurance contracts on the participants covered under the plan, which may be used to fund future benefit payments under the plan. The measurement date for the plan is December 31.As a result of the BancTrust merger on February 15, 2013, Trustmark became the administrator of an additional nonqualified supplemental retirement plan, for which the plan benefits were frozen prior to the merger date. 

At December 31, 2015, the accrued benefit obligation for the supplemental retirement plans equaled $57.8 million, while the net periodic benefit cost equaled $3.8 million in 2015, $3.4 million in 2014 and $3.8 million in 2013.The net periodic benefit cost and projected benefit obligation are determined using actuarial assumptions as of the plans measurement date, which is December 31.The process used to select the discount rate assumption under FASB ASC Topic 715 takes into account the benefit cash flow and the segmented yields on high-quality corporate bonds that would be available to provide for the payment of the benefit cash flow. At December 31, 2015, unrecognized actuarial losses and unrecognized prior service costs continue to be amortized over future service periods. 

Information required in this section is set forth under the heading Legal Proceedings of Note 17  Commitments and Contingencies in Part II.   8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this report. 

Information required in this section is set forth under the heading Lending Related of Note 17  Commitments and Contingencies in Part II.   8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this report. 

At December 31, 2015, Trustmarks total shareholders equity was $1.473 billion, an increase of $53.1 million, or 3.7%, from its level at December 31, 2014.During 2015, shareholders equity increased primarily as a result of net income of $116.0 million, which was partially offset by common stock dividends of $62.6 million. Trustmark utilizes a capital model in order to provide Management with a monthly tool for analyzing changes in its strategic capital ratios. This allows Management to hold sufficient capital to provide for growth opportunities and protect the balance sheet against sudden adverse market conditions, while maintaining an attractive return on equity to shareholders. 

As of January 1, 2015, Trustmark and TNB were subject to revised capital requirements, as described in the section captioned Capital Adequacy included in Part I.   1. Business  of this report. Trustmark and TNB are subject to minimum risk-based capital and leverage capital requirements, which are administered by the federal bank regulatory agencies. These capital requirements, as defined by federal regulations, involve quantitative and qualitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet instruments. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can result in certain mandatory and possibly additional discretionary actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have a direct material effect on the financial statements of Trustmark and TNB and limit Trustmarks and TNBs ability to pay dividends. As of December 31, 2015, Trustmark and TNB exceeded all applicable minimum capital standards. In addition, Trustmark and TNB met applicable regulatory guidelines to be considered well-capitalized at December 31, 2015.To be categorized in this manner, Trustmark and TNB maintained minimum common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital, Tier 1 risk-based capital, total risk-based capital and Tier 1 leverage ratios, and were not subject to any written agreement, order or capital directive, or prompt corrective action directive issued by their primary federal regulators to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measures. There are no significant conditions or events that have occurred since December 31, 2015, which Management believes have affected Trustmarks or TNBs present classification. 

During 2006, Trustmark enhanced its capital structure with the issuance of trust preferred securities and Subordinated Notes (the Notes).For regulatory capital purposes, the trust preferred securities currently qualify as Tier 1 capital. Trustmark will continue to utilize $60.0 million in trust preferred securities issued by the Trust as Tier 1 capital up to the regulatory limit, as permitted by the grandfather provision in the Dodd-Frank Act and the Basel III Final Rule. 

Refer to the section captioned Regulatory Capital included in Note 18  Shareholders Equity in Part II.   8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this report for an illustration of Trustmarks and TNBs actual regulatory capital amounts and ratios under regulatory capital standards in effect at December 31, 2015 (Basel III) and December 31, 2014 (Basel I). 

Dividends per common share for each of the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 were $0.92.Trustmarks dividend payout ratio for 2015, 2014 and 2013 was 53.5%, 50.3%, and 52.6%, respectively. Approval by TNBs regulators is required if the total of all dividends declared in any calendar year exceeds the total of its net income for that year combined with its retained net income of the preceding two years. TNB will have available in 2016 approximately $114.3 million plus its net income for that year to pay as dividends to Trustmark. The actual amount of any dividends declared in 2016 by Trustmark will be determined by Trustmarks Board of Directors. 

Liquidity is the ability to ensure that sufficient cash flow and liquid assets are available to satisfy current and future financial obligations, including demand for loans and deposit withdrawals, funding operating costs and other corporate purposes. Consistent cash flows from operations and adequate capital provide internally generated liquidity. Furthermore, Management maintains funding capacity from a variety of external sources to meet daily funding needs, such as those required to meet deposit withdrawals, loan disbursements and security settlements. Liquidity strategy also includes the use of wholesale funding sources to provide for the seasonal fluctuations of deposit and loan demand and the cyclical fluctuations of the economy that impact the availability of funds. Management keeps excess funding capacity available to meet potential demands associated with adverse circumstances. 

The asset side of the balance sheet provides liquidity primarily through maturities and cash flows from loans and securities as well as the ability to sell certain loans and securities while the liability portion of the balance sheet provides liquidity primarily through noninterest and interest-bearing deposits. Trustmark utilizes federal funds purchased, FHLB advances, securities sold under repurchase agreements as well as the Federal Reserve Discount Window (Discount Window) and, on a limited basis as discussed below, brokered deposits to provide additional liquidity. Access to these additional sources represents Trustmarks incremental borrowing capacity. 

Deposit accounts represent Trustmarks largest funding source. Average deposits totaled to $9.628 billion for 2015 and represented approximately 78.5% of average liabilities and shareholders equity, compared to average deposits of $9.769 billion, which represented 81.2% of average liabilities and shareholders equity for 2014. 

Trustmark utilizes a limited amount of brokered deposits to supplement other wholesale funding sources. At December 31, 2015, brokered sweep Money Market Deposit Account (MMDA) deposits totaled $42.3 million compared to $36.5 million at December 31, 2014. 

At December 31, 2015, Trustmark had $297.0 million in upstream federal funds purchased, compared to $230.0 million at December 31, 2014. Trustmark maintains adequate federal funds lines to provide sufficient short-term liquidity. Trustmark also maintains a relationship with the FHLB of Dallas, which provided $350.0 million of outstanding short-term advances and $500.0 million of outstanding long-term advances at December 31, 2015 compared to $350.0 million of short-term advances and no long-term advances outstanding at December 31, 2014.Trustmark chose to increase its use of FHLB advances with the FHLB of Dallas as a funding source for loan growth due to the favorable interest rates afforded by these advances as compared to other sources in the market. Under the existing borrowing agreement, Trustmark had sufficient qualifying collateral to increase FHLB advances with the FHLB of Dallas by $1.328 billion at December 31, 2015.In addition, at December 31, 2015, Trustmark had $1.2 million in FHLB advances outstanding with the FHLB of Atlanta, which were acquired in the BancTrust merger, compared to $8.0 million at December 31, 2014.Trustmark has non-member status and thus no additional borrowing capacity with the FHLB of Atlanta. 

Additionally, Trustmark has the ability to enter into wholesale funding repurchase agreements as a source of borrowing by utilizing its unencumbered investment securities as collateral. At December 31, 2015, Trustmark had approximately $1.194 billion available in repurchase agreement capacity compared to $893.0 million at December 31, 2014.The increase in repurchase agreement capacity at December 31, 2015, was primarily due to an increase in the unencumbered investment portfolio balance resulting from lower public deposit and repurchase balances. 

Another borrowing source is the Discount Window. At December 31, 2015, Trustmark had approximately $883.7 million available in collateral capacity at the Discount Window from pledges of commercial and industrial LHFI, compared with $955.3 million at December 31, 2014.The decrease in Trustmarks collateral capacity at the Discount Window was due primarily to adjustments by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta to their loan pricing methodology and the release of securities pledged. 

TNB has outstanding $50.0 million in aggregate principal amount of the Notes due December 15, 2016.At December 31, 2015, the carrying amount of the Notes was $50.0 million. The Notes are unsecured and subordinate and junior in right of payment to TNBs obligations to its depositors, its obligations under bankers acceptances and letters of credit, its obligations to any Federal Reserve Bank or the FDIC and its obligations to its other creditors, and to any rights acquired by the FDIC as a result of loans made by the FDIC to TNB. 

During 2006, Trustmark completed a private placement of $60.0 million of trust preferred securities through a newly formed Delaware trust affiliate, the Trust. The trust preferred securities mature September 30, 2036 and are redeemable at Trustmarks option. The proceeds from the sale of the trust preferred securities were used by the Trust to purchase $61.9 million in aggregate principal amount of Trustmarks junior subordinated debentures. 

The Board of Directors of Trustmark currently has the authority to issue up to 20.0 million preferred shares with no par value. The ability to issue preferred shares in the future will provide Trustmark with additional financial and management flexibility for general corporate and acquisition purposes. At December 31, 2015, Trustmark had no shares of preferred stock issued and outstanding. 

Liquidity position and strategy are reviewed regularly by Management and continuously adjusted in relationship to Trustmarks overall strategy. Management believes that Trustmark has sufficient liquidity and capital resources to meet presently known cash flow requirements arising from ongoing business transactions. 

Market risk reflects the potential risk of loss arising from adverse changes in interest rates and market prices. Trustmark has risk management policies to monitor and limit exposure to market risk. Trustmarks primary market risk is interest rate risk created by core banking activities. Interest rate risk is the potential variability of the income generated by Trustmarks financial products or services, which results from changes in various market interest rates. Market rate changes may take the form of absolute shifts, variances in the relationships between different rates and changes in the shape or slope of the interest rate term structure. 

Management continually develops and applies cost-effective strategies to manage these risks. Managements Asset/Liability Committee sets the day-to-day operating guidelines, approves strategies affecting net interest income and coordinates activities within policy limits established by the Board of Directors of Trustmark. A key objective of the asset/liability management program is to quantify, monitor and manage interest rate risk and to assist Management in maintaining stability in the net interest margin under varying interest rate environments. 

Trustmark uses financial derivatives for management of interest rate risk. Managements Asset/Liability Committee, in its oversight role for the management of interest rate risk, approves the use of derivatives in balance sheet hedging strategies. The most common derivatives employed by Trustmark are interest rate lock commitments, forward contracts (both futures contracts and options on futures contracts), interest rate swaps, interest rate caps and interest rate floors. 

These transactions are designed to hedge interest rate, currency or other exposures of the customers and are not entered into by Trustmark for speculative purposes. Increased federal regulation of the derivatives markets may increase the cost to Trustmark to administer derivatives programs. 

On April 4, 2013, Trustmark entered into a forward interest rate swap contract on junior subordinated debentures with a total notional amount of $60.0 million. The interest rate swap contract was designated as a derivative instrument in a cash flow hedge under FASB ASC Topic 815, with the objective of protecting the quarterly interest payments on Trustmarks $60.0 million of junior subordinated debentures issued to the Trust throughout the five-year period beginning December 31, 2014 and ending December 31, 2019 from the risk of variability of those payments resulting from changes in the three-month LIBOR interest rate. Under the swap, which became effective on December 31, 2014, Trustmark pays a fixed interest rate of 1.66% and receives a variable interest rate based on three-month LIBOR on a total notional amount of $60.0 million, with quarterly net settlements. 

No ineffectiveness related to the interest rate swap designated as a cash flow hedge was recognized in the consolidated statements of income during the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014.The accumulated net after-tax loss related to the effective cash flow hedge included in AOCL totaled $160 thousand at December 31, 2015 compared to an accumulated net after-tax gain of $136 thousand at December 31, 2014.Amounts reported in AOCL related to this derivative are reclassified to other interest expense as interest payments are made on Trustmarks variable rate junior subordinated debentures. During the next twelve months, Trustmark estimates that $495 thousand will be reclassified as an increase to other interest expense. 

As part of Trustmarks risk management strategy in the mortgage banking business, various derivative instruments such as interest rate lock commitments and forward sales contracts are utilized. Rate lock commitments are residential mortgage loan commitments with customers, which guarantee a specified interest rate for a specified period of time. Trustmarks obligations under forward contracts consist of commitments to deliver mortgage loans, originated and/or purchased, in the secondary market at a future date. The gross notional amount of Trustmarks off-balance sheet obligations under these derivative instruments totaled $298.6 million at December 31, 2015, with a positive valuation adjustment of $1.4 million, compared to $230.4 million, with a positive valuation adjustment of $285 thousand at December 31, 2014. 

Ineffectiveness of hedging the MSR fair value is measured by comparing the change in value of hedge instruments to the change in the fair value of the MSR asset attributable to changes in interest rates and other market driven changes in valuation inputs and assumptions. The impact of this strategy resulted in a net positive ineffectiveness of $1.9 million and $3.1 million for 2015 and 2014, respectively. The net positive ineffectiveness was primarily due to the mortgage spread widening during 2015 coupled with a decline in mortgage rates compared to the tightening in the mortgage spread and higher mortgage rates during 2014. 

Trustmark offers certain interest rate derivatives products directly to qualified commercial lending clients seeking to manage their interest rate risk under loans they have entered into with TNB.Trustmark economically hedges interest rate swap transactions executed with commercial lending clients by entering into offsetting interest rate swap transactions with institutional derivatives market participants. Derivatives transactions executed as part of this program are not designated as qualifying hedging relationships under GAAP and are, therefore, carried on Trustmarks financial statements at fair value with the change in fair value recorded in noninterest income in bank card and other fees. Because these derivatives have mirror-image contractual terms, in addition to collateral provisions which mitigate the impact of non-performance risk, the changes in fair value are expected to substantially offset. As of December 31, 2015, Trustmark had interest rate swaps with an aggregate notional amount of $359.3 million related to this program, compared to $349.4 million as of December 31, 2014. 

As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, the termination value of interest rate swaps in a liability position, which includes accrued interest but excludes any adjustment for nonperformance risk, related to these agreements was $2.6 million and $1.9 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2015, Trustmark had posted collateral of $2.2 million against its obligations because of negotiated thresholds and minimum transfer amounts under these agreements. If Trustmark had breached any of these triggering provisions at December 31, 2015, it could have been required to settle its obligations under the agreements at the termination value (which is expected to approximate fair market value). 

Credit risk participation agreements arise when Trustmark contracts with other financial institutions, as a guarantor or beneficiary, to share credit risk associated with certain interest rate swaps. These agreements provide for reimbursement of losses resulting from a third party default on the underlying swap. At December 31, 2015, Trustmark had entered into two risk participation agreements as a beneficiary with an aggregate notional amount of $14.8 million compared to three risk participation agreements as a beneficiary with an aggregate notional amount of $19.1 million at December 31, 2014.As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, Trustmark had entered into one risk participation agreement as a guarantor with an aggregate notional amount of $5.9 million and $6.2 million, respectively. The aggregate fair values of these risk participation agreements were immaterial at December 31, 2015 and 2014. 

Trustmarks participation in the derivatives markets is subject to increased federal regulation of these markets. Trustmark believes that it may continue to use financial derivatives to manage interest rate risk and also to offer derivatives products to certain qualified commercial lending clients in compliance with the Volcker Rule. However, the increased federal regulation of the derivatives markets has increased the cost to Trustmark of administering its derivatives programs. Some of these costs (particularly compliance costs related to the Volcker Rule and other federal regulations) are expected to recur in the future.