Humana Inc., headquartered in Louisville, Kentucky, is a leading health and well-being company focused on making it easy for people to achieve their best health with clinical excellence through coordinated care. Our strategy integrates care delivery, the member experience, and clinical and consumer insights to encourage engagement, behavior change, proactive clinical outreach and wellness for the millions of people we serve across the country. 

Our industry relies on two key statistics to measure performance. The benefit ratio, which is computed by taking total benefits expense as a percentage of premiums revenue, represents a statistic used to measure underwriting profitability. The operating cost ratio, which is computed by taking total operating costs, excluding depreciation and amortization, as a percentage of total revenue less investment income, represents a statistic used to measure administrative spending efficiency. 

On July 2, 2015, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, which we refer to in this report as the Merger Agreement, with Aetna Inc. and certain wholly owned subsidiaries of Aetna Inc., which we refer to collectively as Aetna, which sets forth the terms and conditions under which we will merge with, and become a wholly owned subsidiary of Aetna, a transaction we refer to in this report as the Merger. A copy of the Merger Agreement was filed as Exhibit 2.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on July 7, 2015. Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, at the closing of the Merger, each outstanding share of our common stock will be converted into the right to receive (i) 0.8375 of a share of Aetna common stock and (ii) $125 in cash. The total transaction was estimated at approximately $37 billion including the assumption of Humana debt, based on the closing price of Aetna common shares on July 2, 2015. The Merger Agreement includes customary restrictions on the conduct of our business prior to the completion of the Merger, generally requiring us to conduct our business in the ordinary course and subjecting us to a variety of customary specified limitations absent Aetnas prior written consent, including, for example, limitations on dividends (we agreed that our quarterly dividend will not exceed $0.29 per share) and repurchases of our securities (we agreed to suspend our share repurchase program), restrictions on our ability to enter into material contracts, and negotiated thresholds for capital expenditures, capital contributions, acquisitions and divestitures of businesses. 

On October 19, 2015, our stockholders approved the adoption of the Merger Agreement at a special stockholder meeting. Of the 129,240,721 shares voting at the meeting, more than 99% voted in favor of the adoption of the Merger Agreement, which represented approximately 87% of our total outstanding shares of common stock as of the September 16, 2015 record date. Also on October 19, 2015, the holders of Aetna outstanding shares approved the issuance of Aetna common stock in the Merger at a special meeting of Aetna shareholders. 

On January 1, 2015, we realigned certain of our businesses among our reportable segments to correspond with internal management reporting changes and renamed our Employer Group segment to the Group segment. Our three reportable segments remain Retail, Group, and Healthcare Services. The more significant realignments included reclassifying Medicare benefits offered to groups to the Retail segment from the Group segment, bringing all of our Medicare offerings, which are now managed collectively, together in one segment, recognizing that in some instances we market directly to individuals that are part of a group Medicare account. In addition, we realigned our military services business, primarily consisting of our TRICARE South Region contract previously included in the Other Businesses category, to our Group segment as we consider this contract with the government to be a group account. Prior period segment financial information has been recast to conform to the 2015 presentation. This is further described in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements included in   8. - Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 

We manage our business with three reportable segments: Retail, Group, and Healthcare Services. In addition, the Other Businesses category includes businesses that are not individually reportable because they do not meet the quantitative thresholds required by generally accepted accounting principles. These segments are based on a combination of the type of health plan customer and adjacent businesses centered on well-being solutions for our health plans and other customers, as described below. These segment groupings are consistent with information used by our Chief Executive Officer to assess performance and allocate resources. 

The Retail segment consists of Medicare benefits, marketed to individuals or directly via group accounts, as well as individual commercial fully-insured medical and specialty health insurance benefits, including dental, vision, and other supplemental health and financial protection products. In addition, the Retail segment also includes our contract with CMS to administer the LI-NET prescription drug plan program and contracts with various states to provide Medicaid, dual eligible, and Long-Term Support Services benefits, collectively our state-based contracts. The Group segment consists of employer group commercial fully-insured medical and specialty health insurance benefits, including dental, vision, and other supplemental health and voluntary insurance benefits, as well as administrative services only, or ASO products. In addition, our Group segment includes our health and wellness products (primarily marketed to employer groups) and military services business, primarily our TRICARE South Region contract. The Healthcare Services segment includes services offered to our health plan members as well as to third parties, including pharmacy solutions, provider services, home based services, and clinical programs, as well as services and capabilities to advance population health. We will continue to report under the category of Other Businesses those businesses which do not align with the reportable segments described above, primarily our closed-block long-term care insurance policies. 

The results of each segment are measured by income before income taxes. Transactions between reportable segments primarily consist of sales of services rendered by our Healthcare Services segment, primarily pharmacy, provider, and home based services as well as clinical programs, to our Retail and Group customers. Intersegment sales and expenses are recorded at fair value and eliminated in consolidation. Members served by our segments often use the same provider networks, enabling us in some instances to obtain more favorable contract terms with providers. Our segments also share indirect costs and assets. As a result, the profitability of each segment is interdependent. We allocate most operating expenses to our segments. Assets and certain corporate income and expenses are not allocated to the segments, including the portion of investment income not supporting segment operations, interest expense on corporate debt, and certain other corporate expenses. These  s are managed at a corporate level. These corporate amounts are reported separately from our reportable segments and are included with intersegment eliminations. 

One of the product offerings of our Retail segment is Medicare stand-alone prescription drug plans, or PDPs, under the Medicare Part D program. Our quarterly Retail segment earnings and operating cash flows are impacted by the Medicare Part D benefit design and changes in the composition of our membership. The Medicare Part D benefit design results in coverage that varies as a members cumulative out-of-pocket costs pass through successive stages of a members plan period, which begins annually on January1 for renewals. These plan designs generally result in us sharing a greater portion of the responsibility for total prescription drug costs in the early stages and less in the latter stages. As a result, the PDP benefit ratio generally decreases as the year progresses. In addition, the number of low-income senior members as well as year-over-year changes in the mix of membership in our stand-alone PDP products affects the quarterly benefit ratio pattern. 

Our Group segment also experiences seasonality in the benefit ratio pattern. However, the effect is opposite of Medicare stand-alone PDP in the Retail segment, with the Group segments benefit ratio increasing as fully-insured members progress through their annual deductible and maximum out-of-pocket expenses. Similarly, certain of our fully-insured individual commercial medical products in our Retail segment experience seasonality in the benefit ratio akin to the Group segment, including the effect of existing previously underwritten members transitioning to policies compliant with the Health Care Reform Law with us and other carriers. As previously underwritten members transition, it results in policy lapses and the release of reserves for future policy benefits partially offset by the recognition of previously deferred acquisition costs. These policy lapses generally occur during the first quarter of the new coverage year following the open enrollment period reducing the benefit ratio in the first quarter. The recognition of a premium deficiency reserve for our individual commercial medical business compliant with the Health Care Reform Law in the fourth quarter of 2015, discussed in more detail in the highlights that follow, negatively impacted the benefit ratio pattern in 2015 and conversely is expected to favorably impact the benefit ratio in 2016 for this business. The quarterly benefit ratio pattern for our individual commercial medical business compliant with the Health Care Reform Law will be relatively flat throughout 2016 as opposed to the increasing benefit ratio pattern exhibited in prior years. 

Our 2015 results reflect the continued implementation of our strategy to offer our members affordable health care combined with a positive consumer experience in growing markets. At the core of this strategy is our integrated care delivery model, which unites quality care, high member engagement, and sophisticated data analytics. Our approach to primary, physician-directed care for our members aims to provide quality care that is consistent, integrated, cost-effective, and member-focused, provided by both employed physicians and physicians with network contract arrangements. The model is designed to improve health outcomes and affordability for individuals and for the health system as a whole, while offering our members a simple, seamless healthcare experience. We believe this strategy is positioning us for long-term growth in both membership and earnings. We offer providers a continuum of opportunities to increase the integration of care and offer assistance to providers in transitioning from a fee-for-service to a value-based arrangement. These include performance bonuses, shared savings and shared risk relationships. At December31, 2015, approximately 1,633,100 members, or 59.3%, of our individual Medicare Advantage members were in value-based relationships under our integrated care delivery model, as compared to 1,301,000 members, or 53.6%, at December31, 2014. 

On June 1, 2015, we completed the sale of our wholly owned subsidiary, Concentra Inc., or Concentra, to MJ Acquisition Corporation, a joint venture between Select Medical Holdings Corporation and Welsh, Carson, Anderson & Stowe XII, L.P., a private equity fund, for approximately $1,055 million in cash, excluding approximately $22 million of transaction costs. In connection with the sale, we recognized a pre-tax gain, net of transaction costs, of $270 million, or $1.57 per diluted common share in 2015. 

During 2015, we recorded transaction costs in connection with the Merger of approximately $23.1 million, or $0.14 per diluted common share. Certain costs associated with the transaction are not deductible for tax purposes. 

Year-over-year comparisons of the operating cost ratio are impacted by an increase in 2015 of the non-deductible health insurance industry fee mandated by the Health Care Reform Law. Likewise, year-over-year comparisons of the benefit ratio reflect the increase in this fee in the pricing of our products for 2015 which reduces our benefit ratio. 

Operating cash flow provided by operations was $868 million for the year ended December31, 2015 as compared to operating cash flow of $1.6 billion for the year ended December31, 2014. The decrease in our operating cash flows primarily reflects the effect of significant growth in individual commercial medical and group Medicare Advantage membership in the prior year and changes in the timing of other working capital  s related to the growth in our pharmacy business and growth in net receivables under the commercial risk adjustment, reinsurance, and risk corridor programs under the Health Care Reform Law, commonly referred to as the 3Rs. Prior year cash flows were favorably impacted from the typical pattern of claim payments that lagged premium receipts related to new membership. Individual commercial medical added 548,000 new members in 2014 compared to a decline of 90,400 members in 2015. Likewise, group Medicare Advantage added 60,600 new members in 2014 compared to a decline of 5,600 members in 2015. 

In 2015, we paid the federal government $867 million for the annual non-deductible health insurance industry fee compared to our payment of $562 million in 2014. This fee is not deductible for tax purposes, which significantly increased our effective income tax rate beginning in 2014. The health insurance industry fee is further described below under the section titled "Health Care Reform." The Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2016, enacted on December 18, 2015, included a one-time one year suspension in 2017 of the health insurer fee. This will significantly reduce our effective tax rate in 2017. 

During 2015, we repurchased 1.85 million shares in open market transactions for $329 million and paid dividends to stockholders of $172 million. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, after July 2, 2015, we are prohibited from repurchasing any of our outstanding securities without the prior written consent of Aetna, other than repurchases of shares of our common stock in connection with the exercise of outstanding stock options or the vesting or settlement of outstanding restricted stock awards. Accordingly, as announced on July 3, 2015, we have suspended our share repurchase program. Our remaining repurchase authorization was $1.04 billion as of July 3, 2015. The Merger does not impact our ability and intent to continue quarterly dividend payments prior to the closing of the Merger consistent with our historical dividend payments. Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, we have agreed with Aetna that our quarterly dividend will not exceed $0.29 per share prior to the closing of the Merger. 

Although the overall rate adjustment is positive, geographic-specific impacts may vary significantly from this average, particularly in Florida. We believe we have effectively designed Medicare Advantage products based upon the applicable level of rate changes while continuing to remain competitive compared to both the combination of original Medicare with a supplement policy and Medicare Advantage products offered by our competitors. Failure to execute these strategies may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. 

In 2015, our Retail segment pretax income decreased by $409 million, or 30.5%, from 2014 primarily due to higher Medicare Advantage and individual commercial medical benefit ratios year-over-year, including the impact of benefits expense associated with a premium deficiency reserve for certain of our individual commercial products for the 2016 coverage year as described further below and in the results of operations discussion that follows. The higher benefit ratios were partially offset by declines in the Retail segment operating cost ratios, Medicare membership growth, and higher investment income year-over-year. 

Individual Medicare Advantage operating results for 2015 included significant membership growth but were negatively impacted by certain developments related to our product pricing assumptions for 2015. These developments primarily related to lower-than-expected 2015 financial claim recovery levels (included in medical claims reserve development) and lower-than-anticipated reductions in inpatient admissions. Claims data from the fourth quarter of 2015 and early 2016 indicate that inpatient admissions continue to develop favorably versus expectations and claim recoveries have stabilized. We are closely monitoring these favorable trends. 

Operating results for our individual commercial medical business compliant with the Health Care Reform Law have been challenged primarily due to unanticipated modifications in the program subsequent to the passing of the Health Care Reform Law, resulting in higher covered population morbidity and the ensuing enrollment and claims issues causing volatility in claims experience. The benefit ratios associated with many of our individual commercial medical products, in particular Health Care Reform Law compliant offerings, significantly exceeded prior expectations for fiscal year 2015, driven primarily by the on-going impact of the transitional policies, special enrollment period exemptions associated with the program, and government-mandated product designs that attracted higher-utilizing members . Additionally, on June 30, 2015, CMS issued data with respect to the reinsurance and risk adjustment premium stabilization programs for the 2014 plan year which indicated a healthier risk profile comparison for our membership relative to state averages than had been previously anticipated. This resulted in adjustments to certain of the 3Rs during 2015. 

We took a number of actions in 2015 to improve the profitability of our individual commercial medical business in 2016.These actions were subject to regulatory restrictions in certain geographies and included premium increases for the 2016 coverage year related generally to the first half of 2015 claims experience, the discontinuation of certain products as well as exit of certain markets for 2016, network improvements, enhancements to claims and clinical processes and administrative cost control. Despite these actions, the deterioration in the second half of 2015 claims experience together with 2016 open enrollment results indicating the retention of many high-utilizing members for 2016 resulted in a probable future loss. As a result of our assessment of the profitability of our individual medical policies compliant with the Health Care Reform Law, in the fourth quarter of 2015, we recorded a provision for probable future losses (premium deficiency reserve) for the 2016 coverage year of $176 million, or $0.74 per diluted common share. The premium deficiency reserve includes the estimated benefit of approximately $340 million associated with risk corridor provisions expected for the 2016 coverage year. 

In light of the premium deficiency reserve recognized in the fourth quarter of 2015 for the 2016 coverage year, results for this business for 2016 are expected to primarily include results associated with the wind-down of plans that are not compliant with the Health Care Reform Law, including the related release of policy reserves, as well as indirect administrative costs associated with plans that are compliant with the Health Care Reform Law. We are continuing to evaluate our participation in the individual commercial medical line of business for 2017. 

Individual Medicare Advantage membership of 2,753,400 at December31, 2015 increased 325,500 members, or 13.4%, from 2,427,900 at December31, 2014 reflecting net membership additions, particularly for our Health Maintenance Organization, or HMO, offerings, for the 2015 plan year. January 2016 individual Medicare Advantage membership approximated 2,811,000, increasing approximately 57,600 members, or 2%, from December31, 2015 reflecting net membership additions during the recently completed 2016 annual election period for Medicare beneficiaries. For full year 2016, we anticipate net membership growth in our individual Medicare Advantage offerings of 100,000 to 120,000. 

Group Medicare Advantage membership of 484,100 at December31, 2015 decreased 5,600 members, or 1.1%, from 489,700 at December31, 2014.For full year 2016, we expect a net membership decline in our Group Medicare Advantage offerings of 120,000 to 125,000 members primarily due to the loss of a large account that converted to a private exchange offering. Approximately 50% of members from that account selected an individual Humana offering for 2016, with the majority enrolling in a Medicare supplement plan. 

Medicare stand-alone PDP membership of 4,557,900 at December31, 2015 increased 563,900 members, or 14.1%, from 3,994,000 at December31, 2014 reflecting net membership additions, primarily for our Humana-Walmart plan offering, for the 2015 plan year. January 2016 Medicare stand-alone PDP membership (excluding transitional growth from the LI-NET prescription drug plan program) increased approximately 240,000 members, or 5%, from December31, 2015 reflecting net membership additions, primarily for our Humana-Walmart plan offering, during the recently completed 2016 annual election period for Medicare beneficiaries. For full year 2016, we anticipate net membership growth in our Medicare stand-alone PDP offerings of 300,000 to 330,000. 

Individual commercial medical membership of 1,057,700 at December 31, 2015 decreased 90,400 members, or 7.9%, from 1,148,100 at December 31, 2014 primarily reflecting the loss of approximately 150,000 members due to termination by CMS for lack of proper eligibility documentation from the member as well as the loss of members who had subscribed to plans that were not compliant with the Health Care Reform Law. These declines were partially offset by an increase in membership in plans that are compliant with the Health Care Reform Law, primarily off-exchange. Individual commercial medical membership in plans compliant with the Health Care Reform Law experienced growth in 2015, but at a lesser rate than in 2014. At December 31, 2015, individual commercial medical membership in plans compliant with the Health Care Reform Law, both on-exchange and off-exchange, was 757,900 members, an increase of 71,600 members or 10.4% from December 31, 2014. 

We expect a net decline in individual commercial medical membership (excluding Medicare Supplement) for full year 2016 of 200,000 to 300,000, primarily reflecting increases in premiums as well as benefit redesigns that took effect on January 1, 2016. This membership expectation takes into account plans compliant with the Health Care Reform Law, both on and off exchange, and legacy plans that are not compliant with the Health Care Reform Law. Membership estimates for 2016 include the expectation of coverage termination by 50% to 60% of the approximately 100,000 members impacted by plan discontinuances. 

As discussed in the detailed Healthcare Services segment results of operations discussion that follows, our Healthcare Services segment pretax income increased $243 million, or 32.9%, for the year ended December31, 2015. This increase was primarily due to higher earnings from our pharmacy solutions and home based services businesses as they serve our growing Medicare membership. High levels of Medicare membership growth as well as increased engagement of members in clinical programs have resulted in higher usage of services across this segment. In addition, improved operating efficiency in the pharmacy business primarily was driven by lower cost of goods associated with increased purchasing scale and lower cost-to-fill primarily due to improvements in technology. 

Programs to enhance the quality of care for members are key elements of our integrated care delivery model. We have expanded our identification of and outreach to members in need of clinical intervention. At December31, 2015, we enrolled approximately 590,300 Medicare Advantage members with complex chronic conditions in the Humana Chronic Care Program, a 40.3% increase compared with approximately 420,700 members at December31, 2014, reflecting enhanced predictive modeling capabilities and focus on proactive clinical outreach and member engagement. We believe these initiatives lead to better health outcomes for our members and lower health care costs. 

The Health Care Reform Law enacted significant reforms to various aspects of the U.S. health insurance industry. Certain significant provisions of the Health Care Reform Law include, among others, mandated coverage requirements, mandated benefits and guarantee issuance associated with commercial medical insurance, rebates to policyholders based on minimum benefit ratios, adjustments to Medicare Advantage premiums, the establishment of federally-facilitated or state-based exchanges coupled with programs designed to spread risk among insurers, and the introduction of plan designs based on set actuarial values. In addition, the Health Care Reform Law established insurance industry assessments, including an annual health insurance industry fee and a three-year $25 billion industry wide commercial reinsurance fee. The annual health insurance industry fee levied on the insurance industry was $8 billion in 2014 and $11.3 billion in each of 2015 and 2016, with increasing annual amounts thereafter, and is not deductible for income tax purposes, which significantly increased our effective income tax rate. Our effective tax rate for 2015 was approximately 47.5%, including the favorable impact of the sale of Concentra on June 1, 2015. Our effective tax rate for 2016 is expected to be approximately 49% to 51%, excluding the impact of transaction costs associated with the Merger. In 2015, we paid the federal government $867 million for the annual health insurance industry fee, a 54.3% increase from $562 million in 2014, primarily reflecting an increase in the total industry fee. We expect our portion of the annual health insurance industry fee for 2016 to be higher than in 2015 given growth in our market share. The Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2016, enacted on December 18, 2015, included a one-time one year suspension in 2017 of the health insurer fee. This will significantly reduce our effective tax rate in 2017. The health insurance industry fee levied on the insurance industry was previously expected to be $14 billion in 2017. 

In addition, the Health Care Reform Law expands federal oversight of health plan premium rates and could adversely affect our ability to appropriately adjust health plan premiums on a timely basis. Financing for these reforms comes, in part, from material additional fees and taxes on us (as discussed above) and other health plans and individuals which began in 2014, as well as reductions in certain levels of payments to us and other health plans under Medicare as described in this 2015 10-K. 

As noted above, the Health Care Reform Law required the establishment of health insurance exchanges for individuals and small employers to purchase health insurance that became effective January 1, 2014, with an annual open enrollment period. Insurers participating on the health insurance exchanges must offer a minimum level of benefits and are subject to guidelines on setting premium rates and coverage limitations. We may be adversely selected by individuals who have a higher acuity level than the anticipated pool of participants in this market. 

In addition, regulatory changes to the implementation of the Health Care Reform Law that allowed individuals to remain in plans that are not compliant with the Health Care Reform Law or to enroll outside of the annual enrollment period may have an adverse effect on our pool of participants in the health insurance exchange. In addition, states may impose restrictions on our ability to increase rates. All of these factors may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows if our premiums are not adequate or do not appropriately reflect the acuity of these individuals. Any variation from our expectations regarding acuity, enrollment levels, adverse selection, or other assumptions used in setting premium rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows and could impact our decision to participate or continue in the program in certain states. 

As discussed above, it is reasonably possible that the Health Care Reform Law and related regulations, as well as future legislative changes, including legislative restrictions on our ability to manage our provider network or otherwise operate our business, or regulatory restrictions on profitability, including by comparison of our Medicare Advantage profitability to our non-Medicare Advantage business profitability and a requirement that they remain within certain ranges of each other, in the aggregate may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations (including restricting revenue, enrollment and premium growth in certain products and market segments, restricting our ability to expand into new markets, increasing our medical and operating costs, further lowering our Medicare payment rates and increasing our expenses associated with the non-deductible health insurance industry fee and other assessments); our financial position (including our ability to maintain the value of our goodwill); and our cash flows (including the  delayed receipt of amounts due under the commercial risk adjustment, risk corridor, and reinsurance provisions of the Health Care Reform Law). During 2015, we received our interim settlement associated with our risk corridor receivables for the 2014 coverage year. The interim settlement, representing only 12.6% of risk corridor receivables for the 2014 coverage year, was funded by HHS in accordance with previous guidance, utilizing funds HHS collected from us and other carriers under the 2014 risk corridor program. The risk corridor program is a three year program and HHS guidance provides that risk corridor collections over the life of the three year program will first be applied to any shortfalls from previous benefit years before application to current year obligations. Risk corridor payables to issuers are obligations of the United States Government under the Health Care Reform law which requires the Secretary of HHS to make full payments to issuers. In the event of a shortfall at the end of the three year program, HHS has asserted it will explore other sources of funding for risk corridor payments, subject to the availability of appropriations. 

We intend for the discussion of our financial condition and results of operations that follows to assist in the understanding of our financial statements and related changes in certain key  s in those financial statements from year to year, including the primary factors that accounted for those changes. Transactions between reportable segments primarily consist of sales of services rendered by our Healthcare Services segment, primarily pharmacy, provider, and home based services as well as clinical programs, to our Retail and Group customers and are described in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements included in   8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data in this 2015 10-K. 

Excluding the impact of the sale of Concentra, the decrease primarily was due to a decline in Retail segment pretax results, including expense of $0.74 per diluted common share for a premium deficiency reserve for certain of our individual commercial medical products for the 2016 coverage year, and an increase in the effective tax rate as discussed below. These  s were partially offset by year-over-year improvement in the Group and Healthcare Services segment pretax results and higher investment income. In addition, 2015 includes expenses of $0.14 per diluted common share for transaction costs associated with the Merger, certain of which are not deductible for tax purposes. Net income for 2014 includes expenses of $0.15 per diluted common share associated with a loss on extinguishment of debt for the redemption of certain senior notes in 2014. Year-over-year comparisons of diluted earnings per common share are also favorably impacted by a lower number of shares used to compute diluted earnings per common share in 2015 reflecting the impact of share repurchases. 

Consolidated premiums increased $6.5 billion, or 14.0%, from 2014 to $52.4 billion for 2015 primarily reflecting higher premiums in both the Retail and Group segments. These higher premiums were primarily driven by average membership growth in the Retail segment and an increase in fully-insured group commercial medical per member premiums in the Group segment. Average membership is calculated by summing the ending membership for each month in a period and dividing the result by the number of months in a period. Premiums revenue reflects changes in membership and average per member premiums. 

Consolidated benefits expense was $44.3 billion for 2015, an increase of $6.1 billion, or 16.0%, from 2014 primarily due to an increase in the Retail segment mainly driven by higher average Medicare Advantage membership and individual commercial medical on-exchange and off-exchange membership in plans compliant with the Health Care Reform Law. As more fully described herein under the section entitled Benefits Expense Recognition, actuarial standards require the use of assumptions based on moderately adverse experience, which generally results in favorable reserve development, or reserves that are considered redundant. We experienced favorable medical claims reserve development related to prior fiscal years of $236 million in 2015 and $518 million in 2014. The decline in prior-period medical claims reserve development year over-year primarily was due to Medicare Advantage and individual commercial medical claims development in the Retail segment as discussed further in the segment results of operations discussion that follows. 

The consolidated benefit ratio for 2015 was 84.5%, an increase of 150 basis points from 2014 primarily due to increases in the Retail segment, including the impact of a recognizing a premium deficiency reserve for certain of our individual commercial medical products for the 2016 coverage year, and Group segment ratios as discussed in the segment results of operations discussions that follows. The increase in benefits expense associated with the recognition of the premium deficiency reserve increased the consolidated benefit ratio by approximately 30 basis points in 2015. Favorable prior-period medical claims reserve development decreased the consolidated benefit ratio by approximately 50 basis points in 2015 versus approximately 110 basis points in 2014. 

Our segments incur both direct and shared indirect operating costs. We allocate the indirect costs shared by the segments primarily as a function of revenues. As a result, the profitability of each segment is interdependent. 

The consolidated operating cost ratio for 2015 was 13.6%, decreasing 230 basis points from 2014 primarily due to decreases in the operating cost ratios in the Group and Retail segments reflecting cost management initiatives, as well as the completion of the sale of Concentra on June 1, 2015. Concentra carried a higher operating cost ratio. 

Our effective tax rate during 2015 was 47.5% compared to the effective tax rate of 47.2% in 2014. The increase in the effective tax rate primarily was due to an increase in the non-deductible health insurance industry fee from 2014, substantially offset by the favorable tax effect of the gain on the sale of Concentra. See Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements included in  8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for a complete reconciliation of the federal statutory rate to the effective tax rate. Our effective tax rate for 2016 is expected to be approximately 49% to 51%, excluding the impact of any non-deductible transaction costs associated with the Merger. 

Specialty products include dental, vision, and other supplemental health and financial protection products. Members included in these products may not be unique to each product since members have the ability to enroll in multiple products. 

Individual commercial medical membership decreased 90,400 members, or 7.9%, from December31, 2014 to December31, 2015 primarily reflecting the loss of approximately 150,000 members due to termination by CMS for lack of proper eligibility documentation from the member as well as the loss of members who had subscribed to plans that were not compliant with the Health Care Reform Law. These declines were partially offset by an increase in membership in plans that are compliant with the Health Care Reform Law, primarily off-exchange. 

Retail segment premiums increased $6.4 billion, or 16.1%, from 2014 to 2015 primarily due to membership growth across our Medicare Advantage, state-based Medicaid, and Medicare stand-alone PDP lines of business, as well as a heavier percentage of individual commercial medical business in higher premium plans compliant with the Health Care Reform Law. Average Medicare Advantage membership increased 11.8% in 2015. 

The Retail segment benefit ratio of 86.7% for 2015 increased 180 basis points from 2014 primarily due to higher than expected medical costs as compared to the assumptions used in our pricing, the recognition of a premium deficiency reserve in the fourth quarter of 2015 for certain of our individual commercial medical products for the 2016 coverage year, and unfavorable year-over-year comparisons of prior-period medical claims reserve development as discussed below. In addition, the increase reflects higher benefit ratios associated with a greater number of members from state-based contracts and the impact of the change in estimate for the 2014 net 3Rs receivables in 2015. These  s were partially offset by the impact of the increase in the health insurance industry fee included in the pricing of our products. In addition, the 2015 period was favorably impacted by the release of reserves for future policy benefits as individual commercial medical members transitioned to plans compliant with the Health Care Reform Law. 

We experienced higher than expected medical costs as compared to the assumptions used in our pricing for 2015 primarily due to lower-than-expected 2015 Medicare Advantage financial claim recovery levels and lower-than-anticipated reductions in inpatient admissions. In addition, medical claims associated with certain individual commercial medical products, in particular products compliant with the Health Care Reform Law, exceeded the assumptions used when we set pricing for 2015. We took a number of actions in 2015 to improve the profitability of our individual commercial medical business in 2016. 

Despite these actions, the deterioration in the second half of 2015 claims experience together with 2016 open enrollment results indicating the retention of many high-utilizing members for 2016 resulted in a probable future loss. As a result of our assessment of the profitability of our individual medical policies compliant with the Health Care Reform Law, in the fourth quarter of 2015, we recorded a provision for probable future losses (premium deficiency reserve) for the 2016 coverage year of $176 million. The increase in benefits expense associated with the recognition of the premium deficiency reserve increased the Retail segment benefit ratio by approximately 40 basis points in 2015. 

The Retail segments benefits expense for 2015 included the beneficial effect of $228 million in favorable prior-year medical claims reserve development versus $488 million in 2014. This favorable prior-year medical claims reserve development decreased the Retail segment benefit ratio by approximately 50 basis points in 2015 versus approximately 120 basis points in 2014. The year-over-year decline in prior-period medical claims reserve development primarily was due to the impact of lower financial claim recoveries due in part to our gradual implementation during 2014 of inpatient authorization review prior to admission as opposed to post adjudication, as well as higher than expected flu associated claims from the fourth quarter of 2014 and continued volatility in claims associated with individual commercial medical products. 

The Retail segment operating cost ratio of 11.2% for 2015 decreased 40 basis points from 2014 primarily reflecting administrative cost efficiencies associated with medical membership growth in the segment and other discretionary cost reductions, partially offset by the increase in the non-deductible health insurance industry fee. The non-deductible health insurance industry fee increased the operating cost ratio by approximately 160 basis points in 2015 as compared to 120 basis points in 2014. 

Specialty products include dental, vision, and other voluntary benefit products. Members included in these products may not be unique to each product since members have the ability to enroll in multiple products. 

The Group segments benefits expense included the beneficial effect of $7 million in favorable prior-year medical claims reserve development versus $29 million in 2014. This favorable prior-year medical claims reserve development decreased the Group segment benefit ratio by approximately 10 basis points in 2015 versus approximately 40 basis points in 2014. 

The Group segment operating cost ratio of 24.0% for 2015 decreased 250 basis points from 26.5% for 2014, reflecting a decline in our group ASO commercial medical membership which carries a higher operating cost ratio than our fully-insured commercial medical membership, as well as operating cost efficiencies associated with our fully-insured business. Operating cost efficiencies were the result of both sustainable cost reduction initiatives and discretionary reductions. These declines were partially offset by the impact of an increase in the non-deductible health insurance industry fee. The non-deductible health insurance industry fee increased the operating cost ratio by approximately 140 basis points in 2015 as compared to 100 basis points in 2014. 

Humana Pharmacy Solutions script volumes for the Retail and Group segment membership increased to approximately 398 million in 2015, up 21% versus scripts of approximately 329 million in 2014. The increase primarily reflects growth associated with higher average medical membership for 2015 than in 2014. 

The Healthcare Services segment operating cost ratio of 95.2% for 2015 decreased 40 basis points from 95.6% for 2014 primarily due to lower operating costs in our pharmacy business together with discretionary cost reductions across the segment, partially offset by the increasing percentage of pharmacy business associated with lower margin specialty drugs. Improving operating efficiency in the pharmacy business was primarily driven by lower cost of goods associated with increased purchasing scale and lower cost-to-fill primarily due to improvements in technology. 

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data as well as the benefit of a reduction in benefits expense in 2013 related to a favorable settlement of contract claims with the DoD. Excluding these  s, the increase in net income primarily resulted from higher pretax income in our Healthcare Services segment substantially offset by lower pretax income in our Retail and Group segments. In addition, 2014 was favorably impacted by a lower number of shares used to compute diluted earnings per common share reflecting the impact of share repurchases. 

Consolidated premiums increased $7.1 billion, or 18.4%, from 2013 to $46.0 billion for 2014 primarily due to increases in both Retail and Group segment premiums mainly driven by higher average individual and group Medicare Advantage membership as well as higher individual commercial medical membership. In addition, year-over-year comparisons to 2013 were negatively impacted by sequestration which became effective April1, 2013. Premiums revenue for our Other Businesses declined primarily due to the loss of our Puerto Rico Medicaid contracts effective September30, 2013. 

Consolidated benefits expense was $38.2 billion for 2014, an increase of $5.6 billion, or 17.2%, from 2013 primarily due to increases in both the Retail and Group segments mainly driven by higher average individual and group Medicare Advantage membership as well as higher individual commercial medical membership. We experienced favorable medical claims reserve development related to prior fiscal years of $518 million in 2014 and $474 million in 2013. These increases in favorable medical claims reserve development primarily resulted from increased membership and better than originally expected utilization across most of our major business lines and increased financial recoveries. The increase in financial recoveries primarily resulted from claim audit process enhancements as well as increased volume of claim audits and expanded audit scope. All lines of business benefited from these improvements. 

Our segments incur both direct and shared indirect operating costs. We allocate the indirect costs shared by the segments primarily as a function of revenues. As a result, the profitability of each segment is interdependent. 

Interest expense was $192 million for 2014 compared to $140 million for 2013, an increase of $52 million, or 37.1%. In September 2014, we issued $400 million of 2.625% senior notes due October 1, 2019, $600 million of 3.85% senior notes due October 1, 2024 and $750 million of 4.95% senior notes due October 1, 2044. In October 2014, we redeemed the $500 million 6.45% senior unsecured notes due June 1, 2016, at 100% of the principal amount plus applicable premium for early redemption and accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date, We recognized a loss on extinguishment of debt of approximately $37 million in October 2014 for the redemption of these notes. 

Our effective tax rate during 2014 was 47.2% compared to the effective tax rate of 35.9% in 2013. The non-deductible nature of the health insurance industry fee levied on the insurance industry beginning in 2014 as mandated by the Health Care Reform Law increased our effective tax rate by approximately 9.4 percentage points for 2014. 

Specialty products include dental, vision, and other supplemental health and financial protection products. Members included in these products may not be unique to each product since members have the ability to enroll in multiple products. 

Retail segment premiums increased $7.5 billion, or 23.6%, from 2013 to 2014 primarily due to membership growth across all lines of business, particularly for our Medicare Advantage, individual commercial medical, primarily on the health care exchanges, and state-based Medicaid businesses. Individual Medicare Advantage average membership increased 16.6% in 2014. Individual Medicare Advantage per member premiums decreased approximately 1.7% in 2014 compared to 2013, primarily due to Medicare rate reductions and the impact of sequestration which became effective on April1, 2013. 

The Retail segments benefits expense for 2014 included the beneficial effect of $488 million in favorable prior-year medical claims reserve development versus $428 million in 2013. This favorable prior-year medical claims reserve development decreased the Retail segment benefit ratio by approximately 120 basis points in 2014 versus approximately 130 basis points in 2013. 

Specialty products include dental, vision, and voluntary benefit products. Members included in these products may not be unique to each product since members have the ability to enroll in multiple products. 

Fully-insured commercial group medical membership decreased 1,500 members, or 0.1% from December31, 2013 as an increase in small group business membership was generally offset by lower membership in large group accounts. Approximately 65% of our fully-insured commercial group medical membership was in small group accounts at December31, 2014 compared to 61% at December31, 2013. 

The Group segments benefits expense included the beneficial effect of $29 million in favorable prior-year medical claims reserve development versus $42 million in 2013. This favorable prior-year medical claims reserve development decreased the Group segment benefit ratio by approximately 40 basis points in 2014 versus approximately 70 basis points in 2013. 

Healthcare Services segment pretax income of $738 million for 2014 increased $218 million from 2013. The increase is primarily due to a decline in the operating cost ratio in 2014 on a revenue base that reflects growth from our pharmacy solutions and home based services businesses as they serve our growing Medicare membership. 

Humana Pharmacy Solutions script volumes for the Retail and Group segment membership increased to approximately 329 million in 2014, up 20% versus scripts of approximately 274 million in 2013. The increase primarily reflects growth associated with higher average medical membership for 2014 than in 2013. 

Our Other Businesses pretax income of $1 million for 2014 compared to a pretax loss of $289 million for 2013. The pretax loss in 2013 included net expense of $243 million for reserve strengthening for our closed-block of long-term care insurance policies further discussed in Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements included in  8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Year-over-year comparisons also reflect the loss of our Medicaid contracts in Puerto Rico effective September30, 2013. 

The Merger Agreement includes customary restrictions on the conduct of our business prior to the completion of the Merger, generally requiring us to conduct our business in the ordinary course and subjecting us to a variety of specified limitations absent Aetnas prior written consent. Historically, our primary sources of cash have included receipts of premiums, services revenue, and investment and other income, as well as proceeds from the sale or maturity of our investment securities, borrowings, and proceeds from sales of businesses. Our primary uses of cash historically have included disbursements for claims payments, operating costs, interest on borrowings, taxes, purchases of investment securities, acquisitions, capital expenditures, repayments on borrowings, dividends, and share repurchases. Because premiums generally are collected in advance of claim payments by a period of up to several months, our business normally should produce positive cash flows during periods of increasing premiums and enrollment. Conversely, cash flows would be negatively impacted during periods of decreasing premiums and enrollment. From period to period, our cash flows may also be affected by the timing of working capital  s including premiums receivable, benefits payable, and other receivables and payables. Our cash flows are impacted by the timing of payments to and receipts from CMS associated with Medicare Part D subsidies for which we do not assume risk. The use of operating cash flows may be limited by regulatory requirements of state departments of insurance (or comparable state regulators) which require, among other  s, that our regulated subsidiaries maintain minimum levels of capital and seek approval before paying dividends from the subsidiaries to the parent. Our use of operating cash flows derived from our non-insurance subsidiaries, such as in our Healthcare Services segment, is generally not restricted by state departments of insurance (or comparable state regulators). 

The effect of the commercial risk adjustment, risk corridor, and reinsurance provisions of the Health Care Reform Law impact the timing of our operating cash flows, as we build receivables for each coverage year that are expected to be collected in subsequent coverage years. On June 30, 2015 we received notification from CMS of risk adjustment and reinsurance settlement amounts for 2014. During 2015, we collected $392 million net for risk adjustment and reinsurance recoverable settlements associated with the 2014 coverage year. In addition, during 2015, we received our interim settlement associated with our risk corridor receivables for the 2014 coverage year. The interim settlement, representing only 12.6% of risk corridor receivables for the 2014 coverage year, was funded by HHS in accordance with previous guidance, utilizing funds HHS collected from us and other carriers under the 2014 risk corridor program. We collected $25 million net of payments for risk corridor associated with the 2014 coverage year during 2015. HHS provided guidance under the three year risk corridor program that future collections will first be applied to any shortfalls from previous coverage years before application to current year obligations. Risk corridor payables to issuers are obligations of the United States Government under the Health Care Reform law which requires the Secretary of HHS to make full payments to issuers. In the event of a shortfall at the end of the three year program, HHS has asserted it will explore other sources of funding for risk corridor payments, subject to the availability of appropriations. 

The change in operating cash flows over the three year period primarily results from the corresponding change in earnings, enrollment activity, and the timing of working capital  s as discussed below. The lower operating cash flows in 2015 primarily reflect the effect of significant growth in individual commercial medical and group Medicare Advantage membership in 2014 and changes in the timing of working capital  s related to the growth in our pharmacy business. Operating cash flows for 2014 were favorably impacted and conversely operating cash flows for 2015 were negatively impacted from the typical pattern of claim payments that lagged premium receipts related to new membership in 2014. Individual commercial medical added 548,000 new members in 2014 compared to a decline of 90,400 members in 2015. Likewise, group Medicare Advantage added 60,600 new members in 2014 compared to a decline of 5,600 members in 2015. In addition, 2015 and 2014 operating cash flows were impacted by increased receivables associated with the 3Rs. 

The most significant drivers of changes in our working capital are typically the timing of payments of benefits expense and receipts for premiums. We illustrate these changes with the following summaries of benefits payable and receivables. 

IBNR represents an estimate of benefits payable for claims incurred but not reported (IBNR) at the balance sheet date and includes unprocessed claim inventories. The level of IBNR is primarily impacted by membership levels, medical claim trends and the receipt cycle time, which represents the length of time between when a claim is initially incurred and when the claim form is received (i.e. a shorter time span results in a lower IBNR). 

The increases in benefits payable in 2015 and 2014 largely were due to an increase in IBNR. IBNR increased during 2015 primarily as a result of individual Medicare Advantage membership growth while during 2014 IBNR also increased as a result of individual Medicare Advantage membership growth as well as significant growth in individual commercial medical and group Medicare Advantage membership. As discussed previously, our cash flows are impacted by changes in enrollment. In 2014 (the first year plans compliant with the Health Care Reform Law were effective), membership in new fully-insured individual commercial medical plans compliant with the Health Care Reform Law grew as compared with a decline in membership in these plans in 2015. Similarly, growth in group Medicare Advantage membership in 2014 favorably impacted the 2014 cash flows while a decline in group Medicare Advantage membership in 2015 negatively impacted the 2015 cash flows. 

In addition, the increase in benefits payable in 2015 reflects the recognition of a premium deficiency reserve associated with our individual commercial medical products compliant with the Health Care Reform Law for the 2016 coverage year. An increase in the amount of processed but unpaid claims due to our pharmacy benefit administrator, which fluctuates due to month-end cutoff, also contributed to the benefits payable increase in each of 2015 and 2014. These  s were partially offset by a decrease in amounts owed to providers under capitated and risk sharing arrangements in both 2015 and 2014, including the disbursement of a portion of our Medicare risk adjustment collections under our contractual obligations associated with our risk sharing arrangements. The increase in benefits payable in 2013 primarily was due to an increase in the amount of processed but unpaid claims due to our pharmacy benefit administrator and an increase in IBNR, primarily as a result of Medicare Advantage membership growth. 

As disclosed previously, on June 1, 2015, we completed the sale of our wholly owned subsidiary Concentra. Net receivables associated with Concentra were classified as held-for-sale at December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013 and excluded from the table above for comparative purposes. 

The increases in commercial and other receivables in each of 2015, 2014, and 2013 primarily are due to growth in the business. Excluding the effect of classifying Concentra receivables as held-for-sale at December 31, 2014, the increase in commercial and other receivables from 2013 to 2014 is primarily due to the commercial risk adjustment provision of the Health Care Reform Law which became effective in 2014. 

Many provisions of the Health Care Reform Law became effective in 2014, including the commercial risk adjustment, risk corridor, and reinsurance provisions as well as the non-deductible health insurance industry fee. As discussed previously, the timing of payments and receipts associated with these provisions impact our operating cash flows as we build receivables for each coverage year that are expected to be collected in subsequent coverage years. The net receivable balance associated with the 3Rs was approximately $982 million at December 31, 2015 and $679 million at December 31, 2014, including certain amounts recorded in receivables as noted above. In 2015, we paid the federal government $867 million for the annual health insurance industry fee compared to our payment of $562 million in 2014. 

Our ongoing capital expenditures primarily relate to our information technology initiatives, support of services in our provider services operations including medical and administrative facility improvements necessary for activities such as the provision of care to members, claims processing, billing and collections, wellness solutions, care coordination, regulatory compliance and customer service. Total capital expenditures, excluding acquisitions, were $523 million in 2015, $528 million in 2014, and $441 million in 2013. 

In 2015, we purchased a $284 million note receivable directly from a third-party bank syndicate related to the financing of MCCI Holdings, LLC's business as described in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements included in  8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. The purchase of this note is included with purchases of investment securities in our consolidated statement of cash flows. 

Proceeds from sales and maturities of investment securities exceeded purchases by $103 million in 2015 and $411 million in 2014. These net proceeds were used to fund normal working capital needs due to an increase in receivables associated with the 3Rs in addition to the timing of payments to and receipts from CMS associated with Medicare Part D reinsurance subsidies, as discussed below. We reinvested a portion of our operating cash flows in investment securities, primarily investment-grade fixed income securities, totaling $592 million in 2013. 

Cash consideration paid for acquisitions, net of cash acquired, was $38 million in 2015, $18 million in 2014, and $187 million in 2013. Acquisitions in 2015 and 2014 included health and wellness related acquisitions. Cash paid for acquisitions in 2013 primarily related to the American Eldercare and other health and wellness related acquisitions. 

Claims payments were $361 million higher than receipts from CMS associated with Medicare Part D claim subsidies for which we do not assume risk during 2015, $945 million higher during 2014, and $155 million higher during 2013. Our 2014 financing cash flows were negatively impacted by the timing of payments to and receipts from CMS associated with Medicare Part D claim subsidies for which we do not assume risk. We experienced higher specialty prescription drug costs associated with a new treatment for Hepatitis C than were contemplated in our bids which resulted in higher subsidy receivable balances in 2014 that were settled in 2015 under the terms of our contracts with CMS. Our net receivable for CMS subsidies and brand name prescription drug discounts was $2.0 billion at December 31, 2015 compared to $1.7 billion at December 31, 2014. Refer to Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements included in  8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 

Under our administrative services only TRICARE South Region contract, health care cost payments for which we do not assume risk exceeded reimbursements from the federal government by $4 million in 2015 and were less than reimbursements from the federal government by $5 million in 2013. Reimbursements from the federal government equaled health care cost payments for which we do not assume risk in 2014. Receipts from HHS associated with cost sharing provisions of the Health Care Reform Law for which we do not assume risk were higher than claims payments by $69 million in 2015 and $26 million in 2014. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements included in  8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for further description. 

We repurchased 1.9 million shares for $329 million in 2015, 5.7 million shares for $730 million in 2014 (excludes another $100 million held back pending final settlement of an accelerated stock repurchase plan in March 2015), and 5.8 million shares for $502 million in 2013 under share repurchase plans authorized by the Board of Directors. We also acquired common shares in connection with employee stock plans for an aggregate cost of $56 million in 2015, $42 million in 2014, and $29 million in 2013. 

We entered into a commercial paper program in October 2014. Net proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper were $298 million 2015 and the maximum principal amount outstanding at any one time during 2015 was $414 million. There were no net proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper in 2014 and the maximum principal amount outstanding at any one time during 2014 was $175 million. 

In September 2014, we issued $400 million of 2.625% senior notes due October 1, 2019, $600 million of 3.85% senior notes due October 1, 2024 and $750 million of 4.95% senior notes due October 1, 2044. Our net proceeds, reduced for the underwriters' discount and commission and offering expenses, were $1.73 billion. We used a portion of the net proceeds to redeem our $500 million 6.45% senior unsecured notes. 

The Merger discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements included in  8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data does not impact our ability and intent to continue quarterly dividend payments prior to the closing of the Merger consistent with our historical dividend payments. Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, we have agreed with Aetna that our quarterly dividend will not exceed $0.29 per share prior to the closing of the Merger. Declaration and payment of future quarterly dividends is at the discretion of our Board and may be adjusted as business needs or market conditions change. In addition, under the terms of the Merger Agreement, we have agreed with Aetna to coordinate the declaration and payment of dividends so that our stockholders do not fail to receive a quarterly dividend around the time of the closing of the Merger. 

In September 2014, our Board of Directors replaced a previous share repurchase authorization of up to $1 billion (of which $816 million remained unused) with a new current authorization for repurchases of up to $2 billion of our common shares exclusive of shares repurchased in connection with employee stock plans, expiring on December31, 2016. Under the share repurchase authorization, shares may be purchased from time to time at prevailing prices in the open market, by block purchases, through plans designed to comply with Rule 10b5-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or in privately-negotiated transactions (including pursuant to accelerated share repurchase agreements with investment banks), subject to certain regulatory restrictions on volume, pricing, and timing. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, after July 2, 2015, we are prohibited from repurchasing any of our outstanding securities without the prior written consent of Aetna, other than repurchases of shares of our common stock in connection with the exercise of outstanding stock options or the vesting or settlement of outstanding restricted stock awards. Accordingly, as announced on July 3, 2015, we have suspended our share repurchase program. Our remaining repurchase authorization was $1.04 billion as of July 3, 2015. 

In September 2014, we issued $400 million of 2.625% senior notes due October 1, 2019, $600 million of 3.85% senior notes due October 1, 2024 and $750 million of 4.95% senior notes due October 1, 2044. Our net proceeds, reduced for the underwriters' discount and commission and offering expenses, were $1.73 billion. We used a portion of the net proceeds to redeem the 6.45% senior unsecured notes as discussed below. We previously issued $500 million of 6.45% senior notes due June1, 2016 that were redeemed in October 2014, $500 million of 7.20% senior notes due June15, 2018, $300 million of 6.30% senior notes due August1, 2018, $600 million of 3.15% senior notes due December1, 2022, $250 million of 8.15% senior notes due June15, 2038, and $400 million of 4.625% senior notes due December1, 2042. 

In October 2014, we redeemed the $500 million 6.45% senior unsecured notes due June 1, 2016, at 100% of the principal amount plus applicable premium for early redemption and accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date, for cash totaling approximately $560 million. We recognized a loss on extinguishment of debt of approximately $37 million in October 2014 in connection with the redemption of these notes. 

Our senior notes, which are unsecured, may be redeemed at our option at any time at 100% of the principal amount plus accrued interest and a specified make-whole amount. The 7.20% and 8.15% senior notes are subject to an interest rate adjustment if the debt ratings assigned to the notes are downgraded (or subsequently upgraded). In addition, each series of our senior notes (other than the 6.30% senior notes) contain a change of control provision that may require us to purchase the notes under certain circumstances. On July 2, 2015 we entered into a Merger Agreement with Aetna that, when closed, may require redemption of the notes if the notes are downgraded below investment grade by both Standard & Poors Rating Services, or S&P and Moodys Investors Services, Inc., or Moodys. 

Our 5-year $1.0 billion unsecured revolving credit agreement expires July 2018. Under the credit agreement, at our option, we can borrow on either a competitive advance basis or a revolving credit basis. The revolving credit portion bears interest at either LIBOR plus a spread or the base rate plus a spread. The LIBOR spread, currently 110 basis points, varies depending on our credit ratings ranging from 90 to 150 basis points. We also pay an annual facility fee regardless of utilization. This facility fee, currently 15 basis points, may fluctuate between 10 and 25 basis points, depending upon our credit ratings. The competitive advance portion of any borrowings will bear interest at market rates prevailing at the time of borrowing on either a fixed rate or a floating rate based on LIBOR, at our option. 

The terms of the credit agreement include standard provisions related to conditions of borrowing, including a customary material adverse effect clause which could limit our ability to borrow additional funds. In addition, the credit agreement contains customary restrictive and financial covenants as well as customary events of default, including financial covenants regarding the maintenance of a minimum level of net worth of $8.5 billion at December31, 2015 and a maximum leverage ratio of 3.0:1. We are in compliance with the financial covenants, with actual net worth of $10.3 billion and an actual leverage ratio of 1.3:1, as measured in accordance with the credit agreement as of December31, 2015. In addition, the credit agreement includes an uncommitted $250 million incremental loan facility. 

At December31, 2015, we had no borrowings outstanding under the credit agreement and we had outstanding letters of credit of $1 million secured under the credit agreement. No amounts have been drawn on these letters of credit. Accordingly, as of December31, 2015, we had $999 million of remaining borrowing capacity under the credit agreement, none of which would be restricted by our financial covenant compliance requirement. We have other customary, arms-length relationships, including financial advisory and banking, with some parties to the credit agreement. 

In October 2014, we entered into a commercial paper program pursuant to which we may issue short-term, unsecured commercial paper notes privately placed on a discount basis through certain broker dealers. Amounts available under the program may be borrowed, repaid and re-borrowed from time to time, with the aggregate face or principal amount outstanding under the program at any time not to exceed $1 billion. 

The maximum principal amount outstanding at any one time during the year endedDecember31, 2015was $414 million. There was $299 million outstanding at December 31, 2015. 

Adverse changes in our credit rating may increase the rate of interest we pay and may impact the amount of credit available to us in the future. Our investment-grade credit rating at December31, 2015 was BBB+ according to Standard& Poors Rating Services, or S&P, and Baa3 according to Moodys Investors Services, Inc., or Moodys. A downgrade by S&P to BB+ or by Moodys to Ba1 triggers an interest rate increase of 25 basis points with respect to $750 million of our senior notes. Successive one notch downgrades increase the interest rate an additional 25 basis points, or annual interest expense by $2 million, up to a maximum 100 basis points, or annual interest expense by $8 million. 

In addition, we operate as a holding company in a highly regulated industry. Humana Inc., our parent company, is dependent upon dividends and administrative expense reimbursements from our subsidiaries, most of which are subject to regulatory restrictions. We continue to maintain significant levels of aggregate excess statutory capital and surplus in our state-regulated operating subsidiaries. Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments at the parent company increased to $1.6 billion at December31, 2015 from $1.4 billion at December31, 2014. This increase primarily reflects proceeds from the sale of Concentra on June 1, 2015, proceeds from issuance of commercial paper and subsidiary dividends to the parent company, partially offset by funding of subsidiary working capital requirements, common stock repurchases, capital expenditures, and payment of stockholder dividends. Our use of operating cash derived from our non-insurance subsidiaries, such as our Healthcare Services segment, is generally not restricted by Departments of Insurance. Our regulated subsidiaries paid dividends to the parent of $493 million in 2015, $927 million in 2014, and $967 million in 2013. Subsidiary dividends in 2015 reflect the impact of losses for our individual commercial medical business compliant with the Health Care Reform Law and the November 5, 2015 revised statutory accounting guidance requiring the exclusion of risk corridor receivables from related statutory surplus described below. Refer to our parent company financial statements and accompanying notes in Schedule I - Parent Company Financial Information. Excluding Puerto Rico subsidiaries, the amount of ordinary dividends that may be paid to our parent company in 2016 is approximately $900 million, in the aggregate. Actual dividends paid may vary due to consideration of excess statutory capital and surplus and expected future surplus requirements related to, for example, premium volume and product mix. 

On November 5, 2015, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, or NAIC, issued statutory accounting guidance for receivables associated with the risk corridor provisions under the Health Care Reform Law, which requires the receivables to be excluded from subsidiary surplus. This accounting guidance required additional capital contributions into certain subsidiaries during 2015. This statutory accounting guidance does not affect our financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, under which we have recorded a receivable for risk corridor amounts due to us as an obligation of the United States Government under the Health Care Reform Law. At December 31, 2015, our gross risk corridor receivable for the 2014 and 2015 coverage years in the aggregate was $459 million. We expect to record a risk corridor receivable of approximately $340 million in 2016 for the 2016 coverage year. 

Certain regulated subsidiaries recognized premium deficiency reserves for our individual commercial medical policies compliant with the Health Care Reform Law for the 2016 coverage year in the fourth quarter of 2015. Further, the statutory-based premium deficiency excludes the estimated benefit associated with the risk corridor provisions as a reduction in subsidiary surplus in accordance with the previously discussed November 5, 2015 statutory accounting guidance requiring the exclusion of risk corridor amounts from subsidiary surplus. As a result of the statutory-based premium deficiency, we will fund capital contributions into certain regulated subsidiaries of $450 million during the first quarter of 2016. 

In 2015, we paid the federal government $867 million for the annual health insurance industry fee and expect to pay a higher amount in 2016 given an increase in market share. The Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2016, enacted on December 18, 2015, included a one-time one year suspension in 2017 of the health insurer fee. 

For a detailed discussion of our regulatory requirements, including aggregate statutory capital and surplus as well as dividends paid from the subsidiaries to the parent, please refer to Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements included in  8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 

We lease facilities, computer hardware, and other furniture and equipment under long-term operating leases that are noncancelable and expire on various dates through 2026. We sublease facilities or partial facilities to third party tenants for space not used in our operations which partially mitigates our operating lease commitments. An operating lease is a type of off-balance sheet arrangement. Assuming we acquired the asset, rather than leased such asset, we would have recognized a liability for the financing of these assets. See also Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included in  8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 

Purchase obligations include agreements to purchase services, primarily information technology related services, or to make improvements to real estate, in each case that are enforceable and legally binding on us and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum levels of service to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the appropriate timing of the transaction. Purchase obligations exclude agreements that are cancelable without penalty. 

Includes future policy benefits payable ceded to third parties through 100% coinsurance agreements as more fully described in Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements included in  8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. We expect the assuming reinsurance carriers to fund these obligations and reflected these amounts as reinsurance recoverables included in other long-term assets on our consolidated balance sheet. Amounts payable in less than one year are included in trade accounts payable and accrued expenses in the consolidated balance sheet. 

As of December31, 2015, we were not involved in any special purpose entity, or SPE, transactions. For a detailed discussion off-balance sheet arrangements, please refer to Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included in  8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 

For a detailed discussion our guarantees and indemnifications, please refer to Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included in  8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 

For a detailed discussion of our government contracts, including our Medicare, Military, and Medicaid contracts, please refer to Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included in  8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 

The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements and accompanying notes requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. We continuously evaluate our estimates and those critical accounting policies primarily related to benefits expense and revenue recognition as well as accounting for impairments related to our investment securities, goodwill, and long-lived assets. These estimates are based on knowledge of current events and anticipated future events and, accordingly, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates. We believe the following critical accounting policies involve the most significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. 

Our reserving practice is to consistently recognize the actuarial best point estimate within a level of confidence required by actuarial standards. Actuarial standards of practice generally require a level of confidence such that the liabilities established for IBNR have a greater probability of being adequate versus being insufficient, or such that the liabilities established for IBNR are sufficient to cover obligations under an assumption of moderately adverse conditions. Adverse conditions are situations in which the actual claims are expected to be higher than the otherwise estimated value of such claims at the time of the estimate. Therefore, in many situations, the claim amounts ultimately settled will be less than the estimate that satisfies the actuarial standards of practice. 

We develop our estimate for IBNR using actuarial methodologies and assumptions, primarily based upon historical claim experience. Depending on the period for which incurred claims are estimated, we apply a different method in determining our estimate. For periods prior to the most recent two months, the key assumption used in estimating our IBNR is that the completion factor pattern remains consistent over a rolling 12-month period after adjusting for known changes in claim inventory levels and known changes in claim payment processes. Completion factors result from the calculation of the percentage of claims incurred during a given period that have historically been adjudicated as of the reporting period. 

The completion factor method is used for the months of incurred claims prior to the most recent two months because the historical percentage of claims processed for those months is at a level sufficient to produce a consistently reliable result. Conversely, for the most recent two months of incurred claims, the volume of claims processed historically is not at a level sufficient to produce a reliable result, which therefore requires us to examine historical trend patterns as the primary method of evaluation. Changes in claim processes, including recoveries of overpayments, receipt cycle times, claim inventory levels, outsourcing, system conversions, and processing disruptions due to weather or other events affect views regarding the reasonable choice of completion factors. Claim payments to providers for services rendered are often net of overpayment recoveries for claims paid previously, as contractually allowed. Claim overpayment recoveries can result from many different factors, including retroactive enrollment activity, audits of provider billings, and/or payment errors. Changes in patterns of claim overpayment recoveries can be unpredictable and result in completion factor volatility, as they often impact older dates of service. The receipt cycle time measures the average length of time between when a medical claim was initially incurred and when the claim form was received. Increases in electronic claim submissions from providers decrease the receipt cycle time. If claims are submitted or processed on a faster (slower) pace than prior periods, the actual claim may be more (less) complete than originally estimated using our completion factors, which may result in reserves that are higher (lower) than required. 

Medical cost trends potentially are more volatile than other segments of the economy. The drivers of medical cost trends include increases in the utilization of hospital facilities, physician services, new higher priced technologies and medical procedures, and new prescription drugs and therapies, as well as the inflationary effect on the cost per unit of each of these expense components. Other external factors such as government-mandated benefits or other regulatory changes, the tort liability system, increases in medical services capacity, direct to consumer advertising for prescription drugs and medical services, an aging population, lifestyle changes including diet and smoking, catastrophes, and epidemics also may impact medical cost trends. Internal factors such as system conversions, claims processing cycle times, changes in medical management practices and changes in provider contracts also may impact our ability to accurately predict estimates of historical completion factors or medical cost trends. All of these factors are considered in estimating IBNR and in estimating the per member per month claims trend for purposes of determining the reserve for the most recent two months. Additionally, we continually prepare and review follow-up studies to assess the reasonableness of the estimates generated by our process and methods over time. The results of these studies are also considered in determining the reserve for the most recent two months. Each of these factors requires significant judgment by management. 

The completion and claims per member per month trend factors are the most significant factors impacting the IBNR estimate. The portion of IBNR estimated using completion factors for claims incurred prior to the most recent two months is generally less variable than the portion of IBNR estimated using trend factors. 

The following table provides a historical perspective regarding the accrual and payment of our benefits payable, excluding military services. Components of the total incurred claims for each year include amounts accrued for current year estimated benefits expense as well as adjustments to prior year estimated accruals. 

The following table summarizes the changes in estimate for incurred claims related to prior years attributable to our key assumptions. As previously described, our key assumptions consist of trend and completion factors estimated using an assumption of moderately adverse conditions. The amounts below represent the difference between our original estimates and the actual benefits expense ultimately incurred as determined from subsequent claim payments. 

As previously discussed, our reserving practice is to consistently recognize the actuarial best estimate of our ultimate liability for claims. Actuarial standards require the use of assumptions based on moderately adverse experience, which generally results in favorable reserve development, or reserves that are considered redundant. We experienced favorable medical claims reserve development related to prior fiscal years of $236 million in 2015, $518 million in 2014, and $474 million in 2013. The table below details our favorable medical claims reserve development related to prior fiscal years by segment for 2015, 2014, and 2013. 

The favorable medical claims reserve development for 2015, 2014, and 2013 primarily reflects the consistent application of trend and completion factors estimated using an assumption of moderately adverse conditions. The decline in favorable prior period development in 2015 primarily was due to the impact of lower financial claim recoveries due in part to our gradual implementation during 2014 of inpatient authorization review prior to admission as opposed to post adjudication, as well as higher than expected flu associated claims from the fourth quarter of 2014 and continued volatility in claims associated with individual commercial medical products. The higher favorable prior period development during 2014 and 2013 resulted from increased membership, better than originally expected utilization across most of our major business lines and increased financial recoveries. The increase in financial recoveries primarily resulted from claim audit process enhancements as well as increased volume of claim audits and expanded audit scope. All lines of business benefited from these improvements. 

We continually adjust our historical trend and completion factor experience with our knowledge of recent events that may impact current trends and completion factors when establishing our reserves. Because our reserving practice is to consistently recognize the actuarial best point estimate using an assumption of moderately adverse conditions as required by actuarial standards, there is a reasonable possibility that variances between actual trend and completion factors and those assumed in our December31, 2015 estimates would fall towards the middle of the ranges previously presented in our sensitivity table. 

In the fourth quarter of 2015, we recognized a premium deficiency reserve for our individual commercial medical business compliant with the Health Care Reform Law associated with the 2016 coverage year as discussed in more detail in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements included in  8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 

Military services benefits expense for 2015 and 2014 reflect expenses associated with our contracts with the Veterans Administration. Military services benefits expense for 2013 reflects the beneficial effect of a favorable settlement of contract claims with the DoD partially offset by expenses associated with our contracts with the Veterans Administration. 

Certain health policies sold to individuals prior to 2014 (the first year plans compliant with the Health Care Reform Law were effective) are accounted for as long-duration as more fully described below. The reduction in future policy benefits in 2015 reflects the release of reserves as individual commercial medical members transition to plans compliant with the Health Care Reform Law. 

Future policy benefits payable of $2.2 billion and $2.3 billion at December31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, represent liabilities for long-duration insurance policies including long-term care insurance, life insurance, annuities, and certain health and other supplemental policies sold to individuals for which some of the premium received in the earlier years is intended to pay anticipated benefits to be incurred in future years. At policy issuance, these reserves are recognized on a net level premium method based on premium rate increase, interest rate, mortality, morbidity, persistency (the percentage of policies remaining in-force), and maintenance expense assumptions. Interest rates are based on our expected net investment returns on the investment portfolio supporting the reserves for these blocks of business. Mortality, a measure of expected death, and morbidity, a measure of health status, assumptions are based on published actuarial tables, modified based upon actual experience. The assumptions used to determine the liability for future policy benefits are established and locked in at the time each contract is issued and only change if our expected future experience deteriorates to the point that the level of the liability, together with the present value of future gross premiums, are not adequate to provide for future expected policy benefits and maintenance costs (i.e. the loss recognition date). Because these policies have long-term claim payout periods, there is a greater risk of significant variability in claims costs, either positive or negative. We perform loss recognition tests at least annually in the fourth quarter, and more frequently if adverse events or changes in circumstances indicate that the level of the liability, together with the present value of future gross premiums, may not be adequate to provide for future expected policy benefits and maintenance costs. 

Future policy benefits payable include $1.5 billion at December31, 2015 and 2014 associated with a non-strategic closed block of long-term care insurance policies acquired in connection with the 2007 acquisition of KMG. Approximately 31,800 policies remain in force as of December31, 2015. No new policies have been written since 2005 under this closed block. Future policy benefits payable includes amounts charged to accumulated other comprehensive income for an additional liability that would exist on our closed-block of long-term care insurance policies if unrealized gains on the sale of the investments backing such products had been realized and the proceeds reinvested at then current yields. There was no additional liability at December31, 2015 and $123 million of additional liability at December31, 2014. Amounts charged to accumulated other comprehensive income are net of applicable deferred taxes. 

Long-term care insurance policies provide nursing home and home health coverage for which premiums are collected many years in advance of benefits paid, if any. Therefore, our actual claims experience will emerge many years after assumptions have been established. The risk of a deviation of the actual interest, morbidity, mortality, and maintenance expense assumptions from those assumed in our reserves are particularly significant to our closed block of long-term care insurance policies. A prolonged period during which interest rates remain at levels lower than those anticipated in our reserving would result in shortfalls in investment income on assets supporting our obligation under long term care policies because the long duration of the policy obligations exceeds the duration of the supporting investment assets. Further, we monitor the loss experience of these long-term care insurance policies and, when necessary, apply for premium rate increases through a regulatory filing and approval process in the jurisdictions in which such products were sold. To the extent premium rate increases, interest rates, and/or loss experience vary from our loss recognition date assumptions, future material adjustments to reserves could be required. 

During 2013, we recorded a loss for a premium deficiency. The premium deficiency was based on current and anticipated experience that had deteriorated from our locked-in assumptions from the previous December31, 2010 loss recognition date, particularly as they related to emerging experience due to an increase in life expectancies and utilization of home health care services. Based on this deterioration, and combined with lower interest rates, we determined that our existing future policy benefits payable, together with the present value of future gross premiums, associated with our closed block of long-term care insurance policies were not adequate to provide for future policy benefits and maintenance costs under these policies; therefore we unlocked and modified our assumptions based on current expectations. Accordingly, during 2013 we recorded $243 million of additional benefits expense, with a corresponding increase in future policy benefits payable of $350 million partially offset by a related reinsurance recoverable of $107 million included in other long-term assets. 

For our closed block of long-term care policies, actuarial assumptions used to estimate reserves are inherently uncertain due to the potential changes in trends in mortality, morbidity, persistency and interest rates as well as premium rate increases. As a result, our long term care reserves may be subject to material increases if these trends develop adversely to our expectations. The estimated increase in reserves and additional benefit expense from hypothetically modeling adverse variations in our actuarial assumptions, in the aggregate, could be up to $400 million, net of reinsurance. Although such hypothetical revisions are not currently appropriate, we believe they could occur based on past variances in experience and our expectation of the ranges of future experience that could reasonably occur, and any such revision could be material. Generally accepted accounting principles do not allow us to unlock our assumptions for favorable  s. 

In addition, future policy benefits payable includes amounts of $205 million at December31, 2015, $210 million at December31, 2014, and $215 million at December31, 2013 which are subject to 100% coinsurance agreements as more fully described in Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements included in  8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, and as such are offset by a related reinsurance recoverable included in other long-term assets. 

We generally establish one-year commercial membership contracts with employer groups, subject to cancellation by the employer group on 30-day written notice. Our Medicare contracts with CMS renew annually. Our military services contracts with the federal government and our contracts with various state Medicaid programs generally are multi-year contracts subject to annual renewal provisions. 

Our commercial contracts establish rates on a per employee basis for each month of coverage based on the type of coverage purchased (single to family coverage options). Our Medicare and Medicaid contracts also establish monthly rates per member. However, our Medicare contracts also have additional provisions as outlined in the following separate section. 

Premiums revenue and administrative services only, or ASO, fees are estimated by multiplying the membership covered under the various contracts by the contractual rates. In addition, we adjust revenues for estimated changes in an employers enrollment and individuals that ultimately may fail to pay, and for estimated rebates under the minimum benefit ratios required under the Health Care Reform Law. 

We bill and collect premium from employer groups and members in our Medicare and other individual products monthly. We receive monthly premiums from the federal government and various states according to government specified payment rates and various contractual terms. Changes in revenues from for our Medicare and individual commercial medical products resulting from the periodic changes in risk-adjustment scores derived from medical diagnoses for our membership are recognized when the amounts become determinable and the collectibility is reasonably assured. 

CMS utilizes a risk-adjustment model which apportions premiums paid to Medicare Advantage plans according to health severity. The risk-adjustment model pays more for enrollees with predictably higher costs. Under the risk-adjustment methodology, all Medicare Advantage plans must collect and submit the necessary diagnosis code information from hospital inpatient, hospital outpatient, and physician providers to CMS within prescribed deadlines. The CMS risk-adjustment model uses this diagnosis data to calculate the risk-adjusted premium payment to Medicare Advantage plans. Rates paid to Medicare Advantage plans are established under an actuarial bid model, including a process that bases our payments on a comparison of our beneficiaries risk scores, derived from medical diagnoses, to those enrolled in the governments Medicare FFS program. We generally rely on providers, including certain providers in our network who are our employees, to code their claim submissions with appropriate diagnoses, which we send to CMS as the basis for our payment received from CMS under the actuarial risk-adjustment model. We also rely on providers to appropriately document all medical data, including the diagnosis data submitted with claims. We estimate risk-adjustment revenues based on medical diagnoses for our membership. The risk-adjustment model is more fully described in  1. Business under the section titled Individual Medicare. 

Investment securities totaled $9.1 billion, or 37% of total assets at December31, 2015, and $9.5 billion, or 41% of total assets at December31, 2014. Debt securities, detailed below, comprised this entire investment portfolio at December31, 2015 and 2014. 

Tax-exempt municipal securities included pre-refunded bonds of $178 million at December31, 2015 and $199 million at December31, 2014. These pre-refunded bonds were secured by an escrow fund consisting of U.S. government obligations sufficient to pay off all amounts outstanding at maturity. The ratings of these pre-refunded bonds generally assume the rating of the government obligations at the time the fund is established. Tax-exempt municipal securities that were not pre-refunded were diversified among general obligation bonds of U.S. states and local municipalities as well as special revenue bonds. General obligation bonds, which are backed by the taxing power and full faith of the issuer, accounted for $1.0 billion of these municipals in the portfolio. Special revenue bonds, issued by a municipality to finance a specific public works project such as utilities, water and sewer, transportation, or education, and supported by the revenues of that project, accounted for $1.4 billion of these municipals. Our general obligation bonds are diversified across the U.S. with no individual state exceeding 11%. In addition, certain monoline insurers guarantee the timely repayment of bond principal and interest when a bond issuer defaults and generally provide credit enhancement for bond issues related to our tax-exempt municipal securities. We have no direct exposure to these monoline insurers. We owned $173 million and $484 million at December31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, of tax-exempt securities guaranteed by monoline insurers. The equivalent weighted average S&P credit rating of these tax-exempt securities without the guarantee from the monoline insurer was AA. 

Our direct exposure to subprime mortgage lending is limited to investment in residential mortgage-backed securities and asset-backed securities backed by home equity loans. The fair value of securities backed by Alt-A and subprime loans was $1 million at December31, 2015 and 2014. There are no collateralized debt obligations or structured investment vehicles in our investment portfolio. The percentage of corporate securities associated with the financial services industry was 25% at December31, 2015 and 21% at December 31, 2014. 

When we do not intend to sell a security in an unrealized loss position, potential other-than-temporary impairment is considered using a variety of factors, including the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than cost; adverse conditions specifically related to the industry, geographic area or financial condition of the issuer or underlying collateral of a security; payment structure of the security; changes in credit rating of the security by the rating agencies; the volatility of the fair value changes; and changes in fair value of the security after the balance sheet date. For debt securities, we take into account expectations of relevant market and economic data. For example, with respect to mortgage and asset-backed securities, such data includes underlying loan level data and structural features such as seniority and other forms of credit enhancements. A decline in fair value is considered other-than-temporary when we do not expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security. We estimate the amount of the credit loss component of a debt security as the difference between the amortized cost and the present value of the expected cash flows of the security. The present value is determined using the best estimate of future cash flows discounted at the implicit interest rate at the date of purchase. The risks inherent in assessing the impairment of an investment include the risk that market factors may differ from our expectations, facts and circumstances factored into our assessment may change with the passage of time, or we may decide to subsequently sell the investment. The determination of whether a decline in the value of an investment is other than temporary requires us to exercise significant diligence and judgment. The discovery of new information and the passage of time can significantly change these judgments. The status of the general economic environment and significant changes in the national securities markets influence the determination of fair value and the assessment of investment impairment. There is a continuing risk that declines in fair value may occur and additional material realized losses from sales or other-than-temporary impairments may be recorded in future periods. 

The recoverability of our non-agency residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities is supported by factors such as seniority, underlying collateral characteristics and credit enhancements. These residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities at December31, 2015 primarily were composed of senior tranches having high credit support, with over 99% of the collateral consisting of prime loans. The weighted average credit rating of all commercial mortgage-backed securities was AA+ at December31, 2015. 

All issuers of securities we own that were trading at an unrealized loss at December31, 2015 remain current on all contractual payments. After taking into account these and other factors previously described, we believe these unrealized losses primarily were caused by an increase in market interest rates in the current markets than when the securities were purchased. At December31, 2015, we did not intend to sell the securities with an unrealized loss position in accumulated other comprehensive income, and it is not likely that we will be required to sell these securities before recovery of their amortized cost basis. As a result, we believe that the securities with an unrealized loss were not other-than-temporarily impaired at December31, 2015. There were no material other-than-temporary impairments in 2015, 2014, or 2013. 

We are required to test at least annually for impairment at a level of reporting referred to as the reporting unit, and more frequently if adverse events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset may be impaired. A reporting unit either is our operating segments or one level below the operating segments, referred to as a component, which comprise our reportable segments. A component is considered a reporting unit if the component constitutes a business for which discrete financial information is available that is regularly reviewed by management. We are required to aggregate the components of an operating segment into one reporting unit if they have similar economic characteristics. Goodwill is assigned to the reporting unit that is expected to benefit from a specific acquisition. The carrying amount of goodwill for our reportable segments has been retrospectively adjusted to conform to the 2015 segment change discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements included in  8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 

We use a two-step process to review goodwill for impairment. The first step is a screen for potential impairment, and the second step measures the amount of impairment, if any. Our strategy, long-range business plan, and annual planning process support our goodwill impairment tests. These tests are performed, at a minimum, annually in the fourth quarter, and are based on an evaluation of future discounted cash flows. We rely on this discounted cash flow analysis to determine fair value. However outcomes from the discounted cash flow analysis are compared to other market approach valuation methodologies for reasonableness. We use discount rates that correspond to a market-based weighted-average cost of capital and terminal growth rates that correspond to long-term growth prospects, consistent with the long-term inflation rate. Key assumptions in our cash flow projections, including changes in membership, premium yields, medical and operating cost trends, and certain government contract extensions, are consistent with those utilized in our long-range business plan and annual planning process. If these assumptions differ from actual, including the impact of the Health Care Reform Law, the estimates underlying our goodwill impairment tests could be adversely affected. Goodwill impairment tests completed in each of the last three years did not result in an impairment loss. The fair value of our reporting units with significant goodwill exceeded carrying amounts by a substantial margin. A 100 basis point increase in the discount rate would not have a significant impact on the amount of margin for any of our reporting units with significant goodwill, with the exception of our provider services reporting unit in our Healthcare Services segment. The provider services reporting unit would decline to approximately 10% margin after factoring in a 100 basis point increase in the discount rate. 

Long-lived assets consist of property and equipment and other finite-lived intangible assets. These assets are depreciated or amortized over their estimated useful life, and are subject to impairment reviews. We periodically review long-lived assets whenever adverse events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of the asset may not be recoverable. In assessing recoverability, we must make assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows and other factors to determine if an impairment loss may exist, and, if so, estimate fair value. We also must estimate and make assumptions regarding the useful life we assign to our long-lived assets. If these estimates or their related assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record impairment losses or change the useful life, including accelerating depreciation or amortization for these assets. There were no material impairment losses in the last three years.Humana Inc., headquartered in Louisville, Kentucky, is a leading health and well-being company focused on making it easy for people to achieve their best health with clinical excellence through coordinated care. Our strategy integrates care delivery, the member experience, and clinical and consumer insights to encourage engagement, behavior change, proactive clinical outreach and wellness for the millions of people we serve across the country. 

Our industry relies on two key statistics to measure performance. The benefit ratio, which is computed by taking total benefits expense as a percentage of premiums revenue, represents a statistic used to measure underwriting profitability. The operating cost ratio, which is computed by taking total operating costs, excluding depreciation and amortization, as a percentage of total revenue less investment income, represents a statistic used to measure administrative spending efficiency. 

On July 2, 2015, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, which we refer to in this report as the Merger Agreement, with Aetna Inc. and certain wholly owned subsidiaries of Aetna Inc., which we refer to collectively as Aetna, which sets forth the terms and conditions under which we will merge with, and become a wholly owned subsidiary of Aetna, a transaction we refer to in this report as the Merger. A copy of the Merger Agreement was filed as Exhibit 2.1 to our Current Report on Form 8 -K filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on July 7, 2015. Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, at the closing of the Merger, each outstanding share of our common stock will be converted into the right to receive (i) 0.8375 of a share of Aetna common stock and (ii) $125 in cash. The total transaction was estimated at approximately $37 billion including the assumption of Humana debt, based on the closing price of Aetna common shares on July 2, 2015. The Merger Agreement includes customary restrictions on the conduct of our business prior to the completion of the Merger, generally requiring us to conduct our business in the ordinary course and subjecting us to a variety of customary specified limitations absent Aetnas prior written consent, including, for example, limitations on dividends (we agreed that our quarterly dividend will not exceed $0.29 per share) and repurchases of our securities (we agreed to suspend our share repurchase program), restrictions on our ability to enter into material contracts, and negotiated thresholds for capital expenditures, capital contributions, acquisitions and divestitures of businesses. 

On October 19, 2015, our stockholders approved the adoption of the Merger Agreement at a special stockholder meeting. Of the 129,240,721 shares voting at the meeting, more than 99% voted in favor of the adoption of the Merger Agreement, which represented approximately 87% of our total outstanding shares of common stock as of the September 16, 2015 record date. Also on October 19, 2015, the holders of Aetna outstanding shares approved the issuance of Aetna common stock in the Merger at a special meeting of Aetna shareholders. 

On January 1, 2015, we realigned certain of our businesses among our reportable segments to correspond with internal management reporting changes and renamed our Employer Group segment to the Group segment. Our three reportable segments remain Retail, Group, and Healthcare Services. The more significant realignments included reclassifying Medicare benefits offered to groups to the Retail segment from the Group segment, bringing all of our Medicare offerings, which are now managed collectively, together in one segment, recognizing that in some instances we market directly to individuals that are part of a group Medicare account. In addition, we realigned our military services business, primarily consisting of our TRICARE South Region contract previously included in the Other Businesses category, to our Group segment as we consider this contract with the government to be a group account. Prior period segment financial information has been recast to conform to the 2015 presentation. This is further described in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements included in   8. - Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 

We manage our business with three reportable segments: Retail, Group, and Healthcare Services. In addition, the Other Businesses category includes businesses that are not individually reportable because they do not meet the quantitative thresholds required by generally accepted accounting principles. These segments are based on a combination of the type of health plan customer and adjacent businesses centered on well-being solutions for our health plans and other customers, as described below. These segment groupings are consistent with information used by our Chief Executive Officer to assess performance and allocate resources. 

The Retail segment consists of Medicare benefits, marketed to individuals or directly via group accounts, as well as individual commercial fully-insured medical and specialty health insurance benefits, including dental, vision, and other supplemental health and financial protection products. In addition, the Retail segment also includes our contract with CMS to administer the LI-NET prescription drug plan program and contracts with various states to provide Medicaid, dual eligible, and Long-Term Support Services benefits, collectively our state-based contracts. The Group segment consists of employer group commercial fully-insured medical and specialty health insurance benefits, including dental, vision, and other supplemental health and voluntary insurance benefits, as well as administrative services only, or ASO products. In addition, our Group segment includes our health and wellness products (primarily marketed to employer groups) and military services business, primarily our TRICARE South Region contract. The Healthcare Services segment includes services offered to our health plan members as well as to third parties, including pharmacy solutions, provider services, home based services, and clinical programs, as well as services and capabilities to advance population health. We will continue to report under the category of Other Businesses those businesses which do not align with the reportable segments described above, primarily our closed-block long-term care insurance policies. 

The results of each segment are measured by income before income taxes. Transactions between reportable segments primarily consist of sales of services rendered by our Healthcare Services segment, primarily pharmacy, provider, and home based services as well as clinical programs, to our Retail and Group customers. Intersegment sales and expenses are recorded at fair value and eliminated in consolidation. Members served by our segments often use the same provider networks, enabling us in some instances to obtain more favorable contract terms with providers. Our segments also share indirect costs and assets. As a result, the profitability of each segment is interdependent. We allocate most operating expenses to our segments. Assets and certain corporate income and expenses are not allocated to the segments, including the portion of investment income not supporting segment operations, interest expense on corporate debt, and certain other corporate expenses. These  s are managed at a corporate level. These corporate amounts are reported separately from our reportable segments and are included with intersegment eliminations. 

One of the product offerings of our Retail segment is Medicare stand-alone prescription drug plans, or PDPs, under the Medicare Part D program. Our quarterly Retail segment earnings and operating cash flows are impacted by the Medicare Part D benefit design and changes in the composition of our membership. The Medicare Part D benefit design results in coverage that varies as a members cumulative out-of-pocket costs pass through successive stages of a members plan period, which begins annually on January 1 for renewals. These plan designs generally result in us sharing a greater portion of the responsibility for total prescription drug costs in the early stages and less in the latter stages. As a result, the PDP benefit ratio generally decreases as the year progresses. In addition, the number of low-income senior members as well as year-over-year changes in the mix of membership in our stand-alone PDP products affects the quarterly benefit ratio pattern. 

Our Group segment also experiences seasonality in the benefit ratio pattern. However, the effect is opposite of Medicare stand-alone PDP in the Retail segment, with the Group segments benefit ratio increasing as fully-insured members progress through their annual deductible and maximum out-of-pocket expenses. Similarly, certain of our fully-insured individual commercial medical products in our Retail segment experience seasonality in the benefit ratio akin to the Group segment, including the effect of existing previously underwritten members transitioning to policies compliant with the Health Care Reform Law with us and other carriers. As previously underwritten members transition, it results in policy lapses and the release of reserves for future policy benefits partially offset by the recognition of previously deferred acquisition costs. These policy lapses generally occur during the first quarter of the new coverage year following the open enrollment period reducing the benefit ratio in the first quarter. The recognition of a premium deficiency reserve for our individual commercial medical business compliant with the Health Care Reform Law in the fourth quarter of 2015, discussed in more detail in the highlights that follow, negatively impacted the benefit ratio pattern in 2015 and conversely is expected to favorably impact the benefit ratio in 2016 for this business. The quarterly benefit ratio pattern for our individual commercial medical business compliant with the Health Care Reform Law will be relatively flat throughout 2016 as opposed to the increasing benefit ratio pattern exhibited in prior years. 

Our 2015 results reflect the continued implementation of our strategy to offer our members affordable health care combined with a positive consumer experience in growing markets. At the core of this strategy is our integrated care delivery model, which unites quality care, high member engagement, and sophisticated data analytics. Our approach to primary, physician-directed care for our members aims to provide quality care that is consistent, integrated, cost-effective, and member-focused, provided by both employed physicians and physicians with network contract arrangements. The model is designed to improve health outcomes and affordability for individuals and for the health system as a whole, while offering our members a simple, seamless healthcare experience. We believe this strategy is positioning us for long-term growth in both membership and earnings. We offer providers a continuum of opportunities to increase the integration of care and offer assistance to providers in transitioning from a fee-for-service to a value-based arrangement. These include performance bonuses, shared savings and shared risk relationships. At December 31, 2015, approximately 1,633,100 members, or 59.3%, of our individual Medicare Advantage members were in value-based relationships under our integrated care delivery model, as compared to 1,301,000 members, or 53.6%, at December 31, 2014. 

On June 1, 2015, we completed the sale of our wholly owned subsidiary, Concentra Inc., or Concentra, to MJ Acquisition Corporation, a joint venture between Select Medical Holdings Corporation and Welsh, Carson, Anderson & Stowe XII, L.P., a private equity fund, for approximately $1,055 million in cash, excluding approximately $22 million of transaction costs. In connection with the sale, we recognized a pre-tax gain, net of transaction costs, of $270 million, or $1.57 per diluted common share in 2015. 

During 2015, we recorded transaction costs in connection with the Merger of approximately $23.1 million, or $0.14 per diluted common share. Certain costs associated with the transaction are not deductible for tax purposes. 

Year-over-year comparisons of the operating cost ratio are impacted by an increase in 2015 of the non-deductible health insurance industry fee mandated by the Health Care Reform Law. Likewise, year-over-year comparisons of the benefit ratio reflect the increase in this fee in the pricing of our products for 2015 which reduces our benefit ratio. 

Operating cash flow provided by operations was $868 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 as compared to operating cash flow of $1.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease in our operating cash flows primarily reflects the effect of significant growth in individual commercial medical and group Medicare Advantage membership in the prior year and changes in the timing of other working capital  s related to the growth in our pharmacy business and growth in net receivables under the commercial risk adjustment, reinsurance, and risk corridor programs under the Health Care Reform Law, commonly referred to as the 3 Rs. Prior year cash flows were favorably impacted from the typical pattern of claim payments that lagged premium receipts related to new membership. Individual commercial medical added 548,000 new members in 2014 compared to a decline of 90,400 members in 2015. Likewise, group Medicare Advantage added 60,600 new members in 2014 compared to a decline of 5,600 members in 2015. 

In 2015, we paid the federal government $867 million for the annual non-deductible health insurance industry fee compared to our payment of $562 million in 2014. This fee is not deductible for tax purposes, which significantly increased our effective income tax rate beginning in 2014. The health insurance industry fee is further described below under the section titled "Health Care Reform." The Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2016, enacted on December 18, 2015, included a one-time one year suspension in 2017 of the health insurer fee. This will significantly reduce our effective tax rate in 2017. 

During 2015, we repurchased 1.85 million shares in open market transactions for $329 million and paid dividends to stockholders of $172 million. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, after July 2, 2015, we are prohibited from repurchasing any of our outstanding securities without the prior written consent of Aetna, other than repurchases of shares of our common stock in connection with the exercise of outstanding stock options or the vesting or settlement of outstanding restricted stock awards. Accordingly, as announced on July 3, 2015, we have suspended our share repurchase program. Our remaining repurchase authorization was $1.04 billion as of July 3, 2015. The Merger does not impact our ability and intent to continue quarterly dividend payments prior to the closing of the Merger consistent with our historical dividend payments. Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, we have agreed with Aetna that our quarterly dividend will not exceed $0.29 per share prior to the closing of the Merger. 

Although the overall rate adjustment is positive, geographic-specific impacts may vary significantly from this average, particularly in Florida. We believe we have effectively designed Medicare Advantage products based upon the applicable level of rate changes while continuing to remain competitive compared to both the combination of original Medicare with a supplement policy and Medicare Advantage products offered by our competitors. Failure to execute these strategies may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. 

In 2015, our Retail segment pretax income decreased by $409 million, or 30.5%, from 2014 primarily due to higher Medicare Advantage and individual commercial medical benefit ratios year-over-year, including the impact of benefits expense associated with a premium deficiency reserve for certain of our individual commercial products for the 2016 coverage year as described further below and in the results of operations discussion that follows. The higher benefit ratios were partially offset by declines in the Retail segment operating cost ratios, Medicare membership growth, and higher investment income year-over-year. 

Individual Medicare Advantage operating results for 2015 included significant membership growth but were negatively impacted by certain developments related to our product pricing assumptions for 2015. These developments primarily related to lower-than-expected 2015 financial claim recovery levels (included in medical claims reserve development) and lower-than-anticipated reductions in inpatient admissions. Claims data from the fourth quarter of 2015 and early 2016 indicate that inpatient admissions continue to develop favorably versus expectations and claim recoveries have stabilized. We are closely monitoring these favorable trends. 

Operating results for our individual commercial medical business compliant with the Health Care Reform Law have been challenged primarily due to unanticipated modifications in the program subsequent to the passing of the Health Care Reform Law, resulting in higher covered population morbidity and the ensuing enrollment and claims issues causing volatility in claims experience. The benefit ratios associated with many of our individual commercial medical products, in particular Health Care Reform Law compliant offerings, significantly exceeded prior expectations for fiscal year 2015, driven primarily by the on-going impact of the transitional policies, special enrollment period exemptions associated with the program, and government-mandated product designs that attracted higher-utilizing members . Additionally, on June 30, 2015, CMS issued data with respect to the reinsurance and risk adjustment premium stabilization programs for the 2014 plan year which indicated a healthier risk profile comparison for our membership relative to state averages than had been previously anticipated. This resulted in adjustments to certain of the 3 Rs during 2015. 

We took a number of actions in 2015 to improve the profitability of our individual commercial medical business in 2016.These actions were subject to regulatory restrictions in certain geographies and included premium increases for the 2016 coverage year related generally to the first half of 2015 claims experience, the discontinuation of certain products as well as exit of certain markets for 2016, network improvements, enhancements to claims and clinical processes and administrative cost control. Despite these actions, the deterioration in the second half of 2015 claims experience together with 2016 open enrollment results indicating the retention of many high-utilizing members for 2016 resulted in a probable future loss. As a result of our assessment of the profitability of our individual medical policies compliant with the Health Care Reform Law, in the fourth quarter of 2015, we recorded a provision for probable future losses (premium deficiency reserve) for the 2016 coverage year of $176 million, or $0.74 per diluted common share. The premium deficiency reserve includes the estimated benefit of approximately $340 million associated with risk corridor provisions expected for the 2016 coverage year. 

In light of the premium deficiency reserve recognized in the fourth quarter of 2015 for the 2016 coverage year, results for this business for 2016 are expected to primarily include results associated with the wind-down of plans that are not compliant with the Health Care Reform Law, including the related release of policy reserves, as well as indirect administrative costs associated with plans that are compliant with the Health Care Reform Law. We are continuing to evaluate our participation in the individual commercial medical line of business for 2017. 

Individual Medicare Advantage membership of 2,753,400 at December 31, 2015 increased 325,500 members, or 13.4%, from 2,427,900 at December 31, 2014 reflecting net membership additions, particularly for our Health Maintenance Organization, or HMO, offerings, for the 2015 plan year. January 2016 individual Medicare Advantage membership approximated 2,811,000, increasing approximately 57,600 members, or 2%, from December 31, 2015 reflecting net membership additions during the recently completed 2016 annual election period for Medicare beneficiaries. For full year 2016, we anticipate net membership growth in our individual Medicare Advantage offerings of 100,000 to 120,000. 

Group Medicare Advantage membership of 484,100 at December 31, 2015 decreased 5,600 members, or 1.1%, from 489,700 at December 31, 2014.For full year 2016, we expect a net membership decline in our Group Medicare Advantage offerings of 120,000 to 125,000 members primarily due to the loss of a large account that converted to a private exchange offering. Approximately 50% of members from that account selected an individual Humana offering for 2016, with the majority enrolling in a Medicare supplement plan. 

Medicare stand-alone PDP membership of 4,557,900 at December 31, 2015 increased 563,900 members, or 14.1%, from 3,994,000 at December 31, 2014 reflecting net membership additions, primarily for our Humana-Walmart plan offering, for the 2015 plan year. January 2016 Medicare stand-alone PDP membership (excluding transitional growth from the LI-NET prescription drug plan program) increased approximately 240,000 members, or 5%, from December 31, 2015 reflecting net membership additions, primarily for our Humana-Walmart plan offering, during the recently completed 2016 annual election period for Medicare beneficiaries. For full year 2016, we anticipate net membership growth in our Medicare stand-alone PDP offerings of 300,000 to 330,000. 

Individual commercial medical membership of 1,057,700 at December 31, 2015 decreased 90,400 members, or 7.9%, from 1,148,100 at December 31, 2014 primarily reflecting the loss of approximately 150,000 members due to termination by CMS for lack of proper eligibility documentation from the member as well as the loss of members who had subscribed to plans that were not compliant with the Health Care Reform Law. These declines were partially offset by an increase in membership in plans that are compliant with the Health Care Reform Law, primarily off-exchange. Individual commercial medical membership in plans compliant with the Health Care Reform Law experienced growth in 2015, but at a lesser rate than in 2014. At December 31, 2015, individual commercial medical membership in plans compliant with the Health Care Reform Law, both on-exchange and off-exchange, was 757,900 members, an increase of 71,600 members or 10.4% from December 31, 2014. 

We expect a net decline in individual commercial medical membership (excluding Medicare Supplement) for full year 2016 of 200,000 to 300,000, primarily reflecting increases in premiums as well as benefit redesigns that took effect on January 1, 2016. This membership expectation takes into account plans compliant with the Health Care Reform Law, both on and off exchange, and legacy plans that are not compliant with the Health Care Reform Law. Membership estimates for 2016 include the expectation of coverage termination by 50% to 60% of the approximately 100,000 members impacted by plan discontinuances. 

As discussed in the detailed Healthcare Services segment results of operations discussion that follows, our Healthcare Services segment pretax income increased $243 million, or 32.9%, for the year ended December 31, 2015. This increase was primarily due to higher earnings from our pharmacy solutions and home based services businesses as they serve our growing Medicare membership. High levels of Medicare membership growth as well as increased engagement of members in clinical programs have resulted in higher usage of services across this segment. In addition, improved operating efficiency in the pharmacy business primarily was driven by lower cost of goods associated with increased purchasing scale and lower cost-to-fill primarily due to improvements in technology. 

Programs to enhance the quality of care for members are key elements of our integrated care delivery model. We have expanded our identification of and outreach to members in need of clinical intervention. At December 31, 2015, we enrolled approximately 590,300 Medicare Advantage members with complex chronic conditions in the Humana Chronic Care Program, a 40.3% increase compared with approximately 420,700 members at December 31, 2014, reflecting enhanced predictive modeling capabilities and focus on proactive clinical outreach and member engagement. We believe these initiatives lead to better health outcomes for our members and lower health care costs. 

The Health Care Reform Law enacted significant reforms to various aspects of the U.S. health insurance industry. Certain significant provisions of the Health Care Reform Law include, among others, mandated coverage requirements, mandated benefits and guarantee issuance associated with commercial medical insurance, rebates to policyholders based on minimum benefit ratios, adjustments to Medicare Advantage premiums, the establishment of federally-facilitated or state-based exchanges coupled with programs designed to spread risk among insurers, and the introduction of plan designs based on set actuarial values. In addition, the Health Care Reform Law established insurance industry assessments, including an annual health insurance industry fee and a three-year $25 billion industry wide commercial reinsurance fee. The annual health insurance industry fee levied on the insurance industry was $8 billion in 2014 and $11.3 billion in each of 2015 and 2016, with increasing annual amounts thereafter, and is not deductible for income tax purposes, which significantly increased our effective income tax rate. Our effective tax rate for 2015 was approximately 47.5%, including the favorable impact of the sale of Concentra on June 1, 2015. Our effective tax rate for 2016 is expected to be approximately 49% to 51%, excluding the impact of transaction costs associated with the Merger. In 2015, we paid the federal government $867 million for the annual health insurance industry fee, a 54.3% increase from $562 million in 2014, primarily reflecting an increase in the total industry fee. We expect our portion of the annual health insurance industry fee for 2016 to be higher than in 2015 given growth in our market share. The Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2016, enacted on December 18, 2015, included a one-time one year suspension in 2017 of the health insurer fee. This will significantly reduce our effective tax rate in 2017. The health insurance industry fee levied on the insurance industry was previously expected to be $14 billion in 2017. 

In addition, the Health Care Reform Law expands federal oversight of health plan premium rates and could adversely affect our ability to appropriately adjust health plan premiums on a timely basis. Financing for these reforms comes, in part, from material additional fees and taxes on us (as discussed above) and other health plans and individuals which began in 2014, as well as reductions in certain levels of payments to us and other health plans under Medicare as described in this 2015 10 -K. 

As noted above, the Health Care Reform Law required the establishment of health insurance exchanges for individuals and small employers to purchase health insurance that became effective January 1, 2014, with an annual open enrollment period. Insurers participating on the health insurance exchanges must offer a minimum level of benefits and are subject to guidelines on setting premium rates and coverage limitations. We may be adversely selected by individuals who have a higher acuity level than the anticipated pool of participants in this market. 

In addition, regulatory changes to the implementation of the Health Care Reform Law that allowed individuals to remain in plans that are not compliant with the Health Care Reform Law or to enroll outside of the annual enrollment period may have an adverse effect on our pool of participants in the health insurance exchange. In addition, states may impose restrictions on our ability to increase rates. All of these factors may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows if our premiums are not adequate or do not appropriately reflect the acuity of these individuals. Any variation from our expectations regarding acuity, enrollment levels, adverse selection, or other assumptions used in setting premium rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows and could impact our decision to participate or continue in the program in certain states. 

As discussed above, it is reasonably possible that the Health Care Reform Law and related regulations, as well as future legislative changes, including legislative restrictions on our ability to manage our provider network or otherwise operate our business, or regulatory restrictions on profitability, including by comparison of our Medicare Advantage profitability to our non-Medicare Advantage business profitability and a requirement that they remain within certain ranges of each other, in the aggregate may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations (including restricting revenue, enrollment and premium growth in certain products and market segments, restricting our ability to expand into new markets, increasing our medical and operating costs, further lowering our Medicare payment rates and increasing our expenses associated with the non-deductible health insurance industry fee and other assessments); our financial position (including our ability to maintain the value of our goodwill); and our cash flows (including the  delayed receipt of amounts due under the commercial risk adjustment, risk corridor, and reinsurance provisions of the Health Care Reform Law). During 2015, we received our interim settlement associated with our risk corridor receivables for the 2014 coverage year. The interim settlement, representing only 12.6% of risk corridor receivables for the 2014 coverage year, was funded by HHS in accordance with previous guidance, utilizing funds HHS collected from us and other carriers under the 2014 risk corridor program. The risk corridor program is a three year program and HHS guidance provides that risk corridor collections over the life of the three year program will first be applied to any shortfalls from previous benefit years before application to current year obligations. Risk corridor payables to issuers are obligations of the United States Government under the Health Care Reform law which requires the Secretary of HHS to make full payments to issuers. In the event of a shortfall at the end of the three year program, HHS has asserted it will explore other sources of funding for risk corridor payments, subject to the availability of appropriations. 

We intend for the discussion of our financial condition and results of operations that follows to assist in the understanding of our financial statements and related changes in certain key  s in those financial statements from year to year, including the primary factors that accounted for those changes. Transactions between reportable segments primarily consist of sales of services rendered by our Healthcare Services segment, primarily pharmacy, provider, and home based services as well as clinical programs, to our Retail and Group customers and are described in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements included in   8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data in this 2015 10 -K. 

Excluding the impact of the sale of Concentra, the decrease primarily was due to a decline in Retail segment pretax results, including expense of $0.74 per diluted common share for a premium deficiency reserve for certain of our individual commercial medical products for the 2016 coverage year, and an increase in the effective tax rate as discussed below. These  s were partially offset by year-over-year improvement in the Group and Healthcare Services segment pretax results and higher investment income. In addition, 2015 includes expenses of $0.14 per diluted common share for transaction costs associated with the Merger, certain of which are not deductible for tax purposes. Net income for 2014 includes expenses of $0.15 per diluted common share associated with a loss on extinguishment of debt for the redemption of certain senior notes in 2014. Year-over-year comparisons of diluted earnings per common share are also favorably impacted by a lower number of shares used to compute diluted earnings per common share in 2015 reflecting the impact of share repurchases. 

Consolidated premiums increased $6.5 billion, or 14.0%, from 2014 to $52.4 billion for 2015 primarily reflecting higher premiums in both the Retail and Group segments. These higher premiums were primarily driven by average membership growth in the Retail segment and an increase in fully-insured group commercial medical per member premiums in the Group segment. Average membership is calculated by summing the ending membership for each month in a period and dividing the result by the number of months in a period. Premiums revenue reflects changes in membership and average per member premiums. 

Consolidated benefits expense was $44.3 billion for 2015, an increase of $6.1 billion, or 16.0%, from 2014 primarily due to an increase in the Retail segment mainly driven by higher average Medicare Advantage membership and individual commercial medical on-exchange and off-exchange membership in plans compliant with the Health Care Reform Law. As more fully described herein under the section entitled Benefits Expense Recognition, actuarial standards require the use of assumptions based on moderately adverse experience, which generally results in favorable reserve development, or reserves that are considered redundant. We experienced favorable medical claims reserve development related to prior fiscal years of $236 million in 2015 and $518 million in 2014. The decline in prior-period medical claims reserve development year over-year primarily was due to Medicare Advantage and individual commercial medical claims development in the Retail segment as discussed further in the segment results of operations discussion that follows. 

The consolidated benefit ratio for 2015 was 84.5%, an increase of 150 basis points from 2014 primarily due to increases in the Retail segment, including the impact of a recognizing a premium deficiency reserve for certain of our individual commercial medical products for the 2016 coverage year, and Group segment ratios as discussed in the segment results of operations discussions that follows. The increase in benefits expense associated with the recognition of the premium deficiency reserve increased the consolidated benefit ratio by approximately 30 basis points in 2015. Favorable prior-period medical claims reserve development decreased the consolidated benefit ratio by approximately 50 basis points in 2015 versus approximately 110 basis points in 2014. 

Our segments incur both direct and shared indirect operating costs. We allocate the indirect costs shared by the segments primarily as a function of revenues. As a result, the profitability of each segment is interdependent. 

The consolidated operating cost ratio for 2015 was 13.6%, decreasing 230 basis points from 2014 primarily due to decreases in the operating cost ratios in the Group and Retail segments reflecting cost management initiatives, as well as the completion of the sale of Concentra on June 1, 2015. Concentra carried a higher operating cost ratio. 

Our effective tax rate during 2015 was 47.5% compared to the effective tax rate of 47.2% in 2014. The increase in the effective tax rate primarily was due to an increase in the non-deductible health insurance industry fee from 2014, substantially offset by the favorable tax effect of the gain on the sale of Concentra. See Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements included in  8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for a complete reconciliation of the federal statutory rate to the effective tax rate. Our effective tax rate for 2016 is expected to be approximately 49% to 51%, excluding the impact of any non-deductible transaction costs associated with the Merger. 

Specialty products include dental, vision, and other supplemental health and financial protection products. Members included in these products may not be unique to each product since members have the ability to enroll in multiple products. 

Individual commercial medical membership decreased 90,400 members, or 7.9%, from December 31, 2014 to December 31, 2015 primarily reflecting the loss of approximately 150,000 members due to termination by CMS for lack of proper eligibility documentation from the member as well as the loss of members who had subscribed to plans that were not compliant with the Health Care Reform Law. These declines were partially offset by an increase in membership in plans that are compliant with the Health Care Reform Law, primarily off-exchange. 

Retail segment premiums increased $6.4 billion, or 16.1%, from 2014 to 2015 primarily due to membership growth across our Medicare Advantage, state-based Medicaid, and Medicare stand-alone PDP lines of business, as well as a heavier percentage of individual commercial medical business in higher premium plans compliant with the Health Care Reform Law. Average Medicare Advantage membership increased 11.8% in 2015. 

The Retail segment benefit ratio of 86.7% for 2015 increased 180 basis points from 2014 primarily due to higher than expected medical costs as compared to the assumptions used in our pricing, the recognition of a premium deficiency reserve in the fourth quarter of 2015 for certain of our individual commercial medical products for the 2016 coverage year, and unfavorable year-over-year comparisons of prior-period medical claims reserve development as discussed below. In addition, the increase reflects higher benefit ratios associated with a greater number of members from state-based contracts and the impact of the change in estimate for the 2014 net 3 Rs receivables in 2015. These  s were partially offset by the impact of the increase in the health insurance industry fee included in the pricing of our products. In addition, the 2015 period was favorably impacted by the release of reserves for future policy benefits as individual commercial medical members transitioned to plans compliant with the Health Care Reform Law. 

We experienced higher than expected medical costs as compared to the assumptions used in our pricing for 2015 primarily due to lower-than-expected 2015 Medicare Advantage financial claim recovery levels and lower-than-anticipated reductions in inpatient admissions. In addition, medical claims associated with certain individual commercial medical products, in particular products compliant with the Health Care Reform Law, exceeded the assumptions used when we set pricing for 2015. We took a number of actions in 2015 to improve the profitability of our individual commercial medical business in 2016. 

Despite these actions, the deterioration in the second half of 2015 claims experience together with 2016 open enrollment results indicating the retention of many high-utilizing members for 2016 resulted in a probable future loss. As a result of our assessment of the profitability of our individual medical policies compliant with the Health Care Reform Law, in the fourth quarter of 2015, we recorded a provision for probable future losses (premium deficiency reserve) for the 2016 coverage year of $176 million. The increase in benefits expense associated with the recognition of the premium deficiency reserve increased the Retail segment benefit ratio by approximately 40 basis points in 2015. 

The Retail segments benefits expense for 2015 included the beneficial effect of $228 million in favorable prior-year medical claims reserve development versus $488 million in 2014. This favorable prior-year medical claims reserve development decreased the Retail segment benefit ratio by approximately 50 basis points in 2015 versus approximately 120 basis points in 2014. The year-over-year decline in prior-period medical claims reserve development primarily was due to the impact of lower financial claim recoveries due in part to our gradual implementation during 2014 of inpatient authorization review prior to admission as opposed to post adjudication, as well as higher than expected flu associated claims from the fourth quarter of 2014 and continued volatility in claims associated with individual commercial medical products. 

The Retail segment operating cost ratio of 11.2% for 2015 decreased 40 basis points from 2014 primarily reflecting administrative cost efficiencies associated with medical membership growth in the segment and other discretionary cost reductions, partially offset by the increase in the non-deductible health insurance industry fee. The non-deductible health insurance industry fee increased the operating cost ratio by approximately 160 basis points in 2015 as compared to 120 basis points in 2014. 

Specialty products include dental, vision, and other voluntary benefit products. Members included in these products may not be unique to each product since members have the ability to enroll in multiple products. 

The Group segments benefits expense included the beneficial effect of $7 million in favorable prior-year medical claims reserve development versus $29 million in 2014. This favorable prior-year medical claims reserve development decreased the Group segment benefit ratio by approximately 10 basis points in 2015 versus approximately 40 basis points in 2014. 

The Group segment operating cost ratio of 24.0% for 2015 decreased 250 basis points from 26.5% for 2014, reflecting a decline in our group ASO commercial medical membership which carries a higher operating cost ratio than our fully-insured commercial medical membership, as well as operating cost efficiencies associated with our fully-insured business. Operating cost efficiencies were the result of both sustainable cost reduction initiatives and discretionary reductions. These declines were partially offset by the impact of an increase in the non-deductible health insurance industry fee. The non-deductible health insurance industry fee increased the operating cost ratio by approximately 140 basis points in 2015 as compared to 100 basis points in 2014. 

Humana Pharmacy Solutions script volumes for the Retail and Group segment membership increased to approximately 398 million in 2015, up 21% versus scripts of approximately 329 million in 2014. The increase primarily reflects growth associated with higher average medical membership for 2015 than in 2014. 

The Healthcare Services segment operating cost ratio of 95.2% for 2015 decreased 40 basis points from 95.6% for 2014 primarily due to lower operating costs in our pharmacy business together with discretionary cost reductions across the segment, partially offset by the increasing percentage of pharmacy business associated with lower margin specialty drugs. Improving operating efficiency in the pharmacy business was primarily driven by lower cost of goods associated with increased purchasing scale and lower cost-to-fill primarily due to improvements in technology. 

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data as well as the benefit of a reduction in benefits expense in 2013 related to a favorable settlement of contract claims with the DoD. Excluding these  s, the increase in net income primarily resulted from higher pretax income in our Healthcare Services segment substantially offset by lower pretax income in our Retail and Group segments. In addition, 2014 was favorably impacted by a lower number of shares used to compute diluted earnings per common share reflecting the impact of share repurchases. 

Consolidated premiums increased $7.1 billion, or 18.4%, from 2013 to $46.0 billion for 2014 primarily due to increases in both Retail and Group segment premiums mainly driven by higher average individual and group Medicare Advantage membership as well as higher individual commercial medical membership. In addition, year-over-year comparisons to 2013 were negatively impacted by sequestration which became effective April 1, 2013. Premiums revenue for our Other Businesses declined primarily due to the loss of our Puerto Rico Medicaid contracts effective September 30, 2013. 

Consolidated benefits expense was $38.2 billion for 2014, an increase of $5.6 billion, or 17.2%, from 2013 primarily due to increases in both the Retail and Group segments mainly driven by higher average individual and group Medicare Advantage membership as well as higher individual commercial medical membership. We experienced favorable medical claims reserve development related to prior fiscal years of $518 million in 2014 and $474 million in 2013. These increases in favorable medical claims reserve development primarily resulted from increased membership and better than originally expected utilization across most of our major business lines and increased financial recoveries. The increase in financial recoveries primarily resulted from claim audit process enhancements as well as increased volume of claim audits and expanded audit scope. All lines of business benefited from these improvements. 

Our segments incur both direct and shared indirect operating costs. We allocate the indirect costs shared by the segments primarily as a function of revenues. As a result, the profitability of each segment is interdependent. 

Interest expense was $192 million for 2014 compared to $140 million for 2013, an increase of $52 million, or 37.1%. In September 2014, we issued $400 million of 2.625% senior notes due October 1, 2019, $600 million of 3.85% senior notes due October 1, 2024 and $750 million of 4.95% senior notes due October 1, 2044. In October 2014, we redeemed the $500 million 6.45% senior unsecured notes due June 1, 2016, at 100% of the principal amount plus applicable premium for early redemption and accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date, We recognized a loss on extinguishment of debt of approximately $37 million in October 2014 for the redemption of these notes. 

Our effective tax rate during 2014 was 47.2% compared to the effective tax rate of 35.9% in 2013. The non-deductible nature of the health insurance industry fee levied on the insurance industry beginning in 2014 as mandated by the Health Care Reform Law increased our effective tax rate by approximately 9.4 percentage points for 2014. 

Specialty products include dental, vision, and other supplemental health and financial protection products. Members included in these products may not be unique to each product since members have the ability to enroll in multiple products. 

Retail segment premiums increased $7.5 billion, or 23.6%, from 2013 to 2014 primarily due to membership growth across all lines of business, particularly for our Medicare Advantage, individual commercial medical, primarily on the health care exchanges, and state-based Medicaid businesses. Individual Medicare Advantage average membership increased 16.6% in 2014. Individual Medicare Advantage per member premiums decreased approximately 1.7% in 2014 compared to 2013, primarily due to Medicare rate reductions and the impact of sequestration which became effective on April 1, 2013. 

The Retail segments benefits expense for 2014 included the beneficial effect of $488 million in favorable prior-year medical claims reserve development versus $428 million in 2013. This favorable prior-year medical claims reserve development decreased the Retail segment benefit ratio by approximately 120 basis points in 2014 versus approximately 130 basis points in 2013. 

Specialty products include dental, vision, and voluntary benefit products. Members included in these products may not be unique to each product since members have the ability to enroll in multiple products. 

Fully-insured commercial group medical membership decreased 1,500 members, or 0.1% from December 31, 2013 as an increase in small group business membership was generally offset by lower membership in large group accounts. Approximately 65% of our fully-insured commercial group medical membership was in small group accounts at December 31, 2014 compared to 61% at December 31, 2013. 

The Group segments benefits expense included the beneficial effect of $29 million in favorable prior-year medical claims reserve development versus $42 million in 2013. This favorable prior-year medical claims reserve development decreased the Group segment benefit ratio by approximately 40 basis points in 2014 versus approximately 70 basis points in 2013. 

Healthcare Services segment pretax income of $738 million for 2014 increased $218 million from 2013. The increase is primarily due to a decline in the operating cost ratio in 2014 on a revenue base that reflects growth from our pharmacy solutions and home based services businesses as they serve our growing Medicare membership. 

Humana Pharmacy Solutions script volumes for the Retail and Group segment membership increased to approximately 329 million in 2014, up 20% versus scripts of approximately 274 million in 2013. The increase primarily reflects growth associated with higher average medical membership for 2014 than in 2013. 

Our Other Businesses pretax income of $1 million for 2014 compared to a pretax loss of $289 million for 2013. The pretax loss in 2013 included net expense of $243 million for reserve strengthening for our closed-block of long-term care insurance policies further discussed in Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements included in  8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Year-over-year comparisons also reflect the loss of our Medicaid contracts in Puerto Rico effective September 30, 2013. 

The Merger Agreement includes customary restrictions on the conduct of our business prior to the completion of the Merger, generally requiring us to conduct our business in the ordinary course and subjecting us to a variety of specified limitations absent Aetnas prior written consent. Historically, our primary sources of cash have included receipts of premiums, services revenue, and investment and other income, as well as proceeds from the sale or maturity of our investment securities, borrowings, and proceeds from sales of businesses. Our primary uses of cash historically have included disbursements for claims payments, operating costs, interest on borrowings, taxes, purchases of investment securities, acquisitions, capital expenditures, repayments on borrowings, dividends, and share repurchases. Because premiums generally are collected in advance of claim payments by a period of up to several months, our business normally should produce positive cash flows during periods of increasing premiums and enrollment. Conversely, cash flows would be negatively impacted during periods of decreasing premiums and enrollment. From period to period, our cash flows may also be affected by the timing of working capital  s including premiums receivable, benefits payable, and other receivables and payables. Our cash flows are impacted by the timing of payments to and receipts from CMS associated with Medicare Part D subsidies for which we do not assume risk. The use of operating cash flows may be limited by regulatory requirements of state departments of insurance (or comparable state regulators) which require, among other  s, that our regulated subsidiaries maintain minimum levels of capital and seek approval before paying dividends from the subsidiaries to the parent. Our use of operating cash flows derived from our non-insurance subsidiaries, such as in our Healthcare Services segment, is generally not restricted by state departments of insurance (or comparable state regulators). 

The effect of the commercial risk adjustment, risk corridor, and reinsurance provisions of the Health Care Reform Law impact the timing of our operating cash flows, as we build receivables for each coverage year that are expected to be collected in subsequent coverage years. On June 30, 2015 we received notification from CMS of risk adjustment and reinsurance settlement amounts for 2014. During 2015, we collected $392 million net for risk adjustment and reinsurance recoverable settlements associated with the 2014 coverage year. In addition, during 2015, we received our interim settlement associated with our risk corridor receivables for the 2014 coverage year. The interim settlement, representing only 12.6% of risk corridor receivables for the 2014 coverage year, was funded by HHS in accordance with previous guidance, utilizing funds HHS collected from us and other carriers under the 2014 risk corridor program. We collected $25 million net of payments for risk corridor associated with the 2014 coverage year during 2015. HHS provided guidance under the three year risk corridor program that future collections will first be applied to any shortfalls from previous coverage years before application to current year obligations. Risk corridor payables to issuers are obligations of the United States Government under the Health Care Reform law which requires the Secretary of HHS to make full payments to issuers. In the event of a shortfall at the end of the three year program, HHS has asserted it will explore other sources of funding for risk corridor payments, subject to the availability of appropriations. 

The change in operating cash flows over the three year period primarily results from the corresponding change in earnings, enrollment activity, and the timing of working capital  s as discussed below. The lower operating cash flows in 2015 primarily reflect the effect of significant growth in individual commercial medical and group Medicare Advantage membership in 2014 and changes in the timing of working capital  s related to the growth in our pharmacy business. Operating cash flows for 2014 were favorably impacted and conversely operating cash flows for 2015 were negatively impacted from the typical pattern of claim payments that lagged premium receipts related to new membership in 2014. Individual commercial medical added 548,000 new members in 2014 compared to a decline of 90,400 members in 2015. Likewise, group Medicare Advantage added 60,600 new members in 2014 compared to a decline of 5,600 members in 2015. In addition, 2015 and 2014 operating cash flows were impacted by increased receivables associated with the 3 Rs. 

The most significant drivers of changes in our working capital are typically the timing of payments of benefits expense and receipts for premiums. We illustrate these changes with the following summaries of benefits payable and receivables. 

IBNR represents an estimate of benefits payable for claims incurred but not reported (IBNR) at the balance sheet date and includes unprocessed claim inventories. The level of IBNR is primarily impacted by membership levels, medical claim trends and the receipt cycle time, which represents the length of time between when a claim is initially incurred and when the claim form is received (i.e. a shorter time span results in a lower IBNR). 

The increases in benefits payable in 2015 and 2014 largely were due to an increase in IBNR. IBNR increased during 2015 primarily as a result of individual Medicare Advantage membership growth while during 2014 IBNR also increased as a result of individual Medicare Advantage membership growth as well as significant growth in individual commercial medical and group Medicare Advantage membership. As discussed previously, our cash flows are impacted by changes in enrollment. In 2014 (the first year plans compliant with the Health Care Reform Law were effective), membership in new fully-insured individual commercial medical plans compliant with the Health Care Reform Law grew as compared with a decline in membership in these plans in 2015. Similarly, growth in group Medicare Advantage membership in 2014 favorably impacted the 2014 cash flows while a decline in group Medicare Advantage membership in 2015 negatively impacted the 2015 cash flows. 

In addition, the increase in benefits payable in 2015 reflects the recognition of a premium deficiency reserve associated with our individual commercial medical products compliant with the Health Care Reform Law for the 2016 coverage year. An increase in the amount of processed but unpaid claims due to our pharmacy benefit administrator, which fluctuates due to month-end cutoff, also contributed to the benefits payable increase in each of 2015 and 2014. These  s were partially offset by a decrease in amounts owed to providers under capitated and risk sharing arrangements in both 2015 and 2014, including the disbursement of a portion of our Medicare risk adjustment collections under our contractual obligations associated with our risk sharing arrangements. The increase in benefits payable in 2013 primarily was due to an increase in the amount of processed but unpaid claims due to our pharmacy benefit administrator and an increase in IBNR, primarily as a result of Medicare Advantage membership growth. 

As disclosed previously, on June 1, 2015, we completed the sale of our wholly owned subsidiary Concentra. Net receivables associated with Concentra were classified as held-for-sale at December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013 and excluded from the table above for comparative purposes. 

The increases in commercial and other receivables in each of 2015, 2014, and 2013 primarily are due to growth in the business. Excluding the effect of classifying Concentra receivables as held-for-sale at December 31, 2014, the increase in commercial and other receivables from 2013 to 2014 is primarily due to the commercial risk adjustment provision of the Health Care Reform Law which became effective in 2014. 

Many provisions of the Health Care Reform Law became effective in 2014, including the commercial risk adjustment, risk corridor, and reinsurance provisions as well as the non-deductible health insurance industry fee. As discussed previously, the timing of payments and receipts associated with these provisions impact our operating cash flows as we build receivables for each coverage year that are expected to be collected in subsequent coverage years. The net receivable balance associated with the 3 Rs was approximately $982 million at December 31, 2015 and $679 million at December 31, 2014, including certain amounts recorded in receivables as noted above. In 2015, we paid the federal government $867 million for the annual health insurance industry fee compared to our payment of $562 million in 2014. 

Our ongoing capital expenditures primarily relate to our information technology initiatives, support of services in our provider services operations including medical and administrative facility improvements necessary for activities such as the provision of care to members, claims processing, billing and collections, wellness solutions, care coordination, regulatory compliance and customer service. Total capital expenditures, excluding acquisitions, were $523 million in 2015, $528 million in 2014, and $441 million in 2013. 

In 2015, we purchased a $284 million note receivable directly from a third-party bank syndicate related to the financing of MCCI Holdings, LLC's business as described in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements included in  8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. The purchase of this note is included with purchases of investment securities in our consolidated statement of cash flows. 

Proceeds from sales and maturities of investment securities exceeded purchases by $103 million in 2015 and $411 million in 2014. These net proceeds were used to fund normal working capital needs due to an increase in receivables associated with the 3 Rs in addition to the timing of payments to and receipts from CMS associated with Medicare Part D reinsurance subsidies, as discussed below. We reinvested a portion of our operating cash flows in investment securities, primarily investment-grade fixed income securities, totaling $592 million in 2013. 

Cash consideration paid for acquisitions, net of cash acquired, was $38 million in 2015, $18 million in 2014, and $187 million in 2013. Acquisitions in 2015 and 2014 included health and wellness related acquisitions. Cash paid for acquisitions in 2013 primarily related to the American Eldercare and other health and wellness related acquisitions. 

Claims payments were $361 million higher than receipts from CMS associated with Medicare Part D claim subsidies for which we do not assume risk during 2015, $945 million higher during 2014, and $155 million higher during 2013. Our 2014 financing cash flows were negatively impacted by the timing of payments to and receipts from CMS associated with Medicare Part D claim subsidies for which we do not assume risk. We experienced higher specialty prescription drug costs associated with a new treatment for Hepatitis C than were contemplated in our bids which resulted in higher subsidy receivable balances in 2014 that were settled in 2015 under the terms of our contracts with CMS. Our net receivable for CMS subsidies and brand name prescription drug discounts was $2.0 billion at December 31, 2015 compared to $1.7 billion at December 31, 2014. Refer to Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements included in  8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 

Under our administrative services only TRICARE South Region contract, health care cost payments for which we do not assume risk exceeded reimbursements from the federal government by $4 million in 2015 and were less than reimbursements from the federal government by $5 million in 2013. Reimbursements from the federal government equaled health care cost payments for which we do not assume risk in 2014. Receipts from HHS associated with cost sharing provisions of the Health Care Reform Law for which we do not assume risk were higher than claims payments by $69 million in 2015 and $26 million in 2014. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements included in  8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for further description. 

We repurchased 1.9 million shares for $329 million in 2015, 5.7 million shares for $730 million in 2014 (excludes another $100 million held back pending final settlement of an accelerated stock repurchase plan in March 2015 ), and 5.8 million shares for $502 million in 2013 under share repurchase plans authorized by the Board of Directors. We also acquired common shares in connection with employee stock plans for an aggregate cost of $56 million in 2015, $42 million in 2014, and $29 million in 2013. 

We entered into a commercial paper program in October 2014. Net proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper were $298 million 2015 and the maximum principal amount outstanding at any one time during 2015 was $414 million. There were no net proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper in 2014 and the maximum principal amount outstanding at any one time during 2014 was $175 million. 

In September 2014, we issued $400 million of 2.625% senior notes due October 1, 2019, $600 million of 3.85% senior notes due October 1, 2024 and $750 million of 4.95% senior notes due October 1, 2044. Our net proceeds, reduced for the underwriters' discount and commission and offering expenses, were $1.73 billion. We used a portion of the net proceeds to redeem our $500 million 6.45% senior unsecured notes. 

The Merger discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements included in  8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data does not impact our ability and intent to continue quarterly dividend payments prior to the closing of the Merger consistent with our historical dividend payments. Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, we have agreed with Aetna that our quarterly dividend will not exceed $0.29 per share prior to the closing of the Merger. Declaration and payment of future quarterly dividends is at the discretion of our Board and may be adjusted as business needs or market conditions change. In addition, under the terms of the Merger Agreement, we have agreed with Aetna to coordinate the declaration and payment of dividends so that our stockholders do not fail to receive a quarterly dividend around the time of the closing of the Merger. 

In September 2014, our Board of Directors replaced a previous share repurchase authorization of up to $1 billion (of which $816 million remained unused) with a new current authorization for repurchases of up to $2 billion of our common shares exclusive of shares repurchased in connection with employee stock plans, expiring on December 31, 2016. Under the share repurchase authorization, shares may be purchased from time to time at prevailing prices in the open market, by block purchases, through plans designed to comply with Rule 10 b 5 - 1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or in privately-negotiated transactions (including pursuant to accelerated share repurchase agreements with investment banks), subject to certain regulatory restrictions on volume, pricing, and timing. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, after July 2, 2015, we are prohibited from repurchasing any of our outstanding securities without the prior written consent of Aetna, other than repurchases of shares of our common stock in connection with the exercise of outstanding stock options or the vesting or settlement of outstanding restricted stock awards. Accordingly, as announced on July 3, 2015, we have suspended our share repurchase program. Our remaining repurchase authorization was $1.04 billion as of July 3, 2015. 

In September 2014, we issued $400 million of 2.625% senior notes due October 1, 2019, $600 million of 3.85% senior notes due October 1, 2024 and $750 million of 4.95% senior notes due October 1, 2044. Our net proceeds, reduced for the underwriters' discount and commission and offering expenses, were $1.73 billion. We used a portion of the net proceeds to redeem the 6.45% senior unsecured notes as discussed below. We previously issued $500 million of 6.45% senior notes due June 1, 2016 that were redeemed in October 2014, $500 million of 7.20% senior notes due June 15, 2018, $300 million of 6.30% senior notes due August 1, 2018, $600 million of 3.15% senior notes due December 1, 2022, $250 million of 8.15% senior notes due June 15, 2038, and $400 million of 4.625% senior notes due December 1, 2042. 

In October 2014, we redeemed the $500 million 6.45% senior unsecured notes due June 1, 2016, at 100% of the principal amount plus applicable premium for early redemption and accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date, for cash totaling approximately $560 million. We recognized a loss on extinguishment of debt of approximately $37 million in October 2014 in connection with the redemption of these notes. 

Our senior notes, which are unsecured, may be redeemed at our option at any time at 100% of the principal amount plus accrued interest and a specified make-whole amount. The 7.20% and 8.15% senior notes are subject to an interest rate adjustment if the debt ratings assigned to the notes are downgraded (or subsequently upgraded). In addition, each series of our senior notes (other than the 6.30% senior notes) contain a change of control provision that may require us to purchase the notes under certain circumstances. On July 2, 2015 we entered into a Merger Agreement with Aetna that, when closed, may require redemption of the notes if the notes are downgraded below investment grade by both Standard & Poors Rating Services, or S&P and Moodys Investors Services, Inc., or Moodys. 

Our 5 -year $1.0 billion unsecured revolving credit agreement expires July 2018. Under the credit agreement, at our option, we can borrow on either a competitive advance basis or a revolving credit basis. The revolving credit portion bears interest at either LIBOR plus a spread or the base rate plus a spread. The LIBOR spread, currently 110 basis points, varies depending on our credit ratings ranging from 90 to 150 basis points. We also pay an annual facility fee regardless of utilization. This facility fee, currently 15 basis points, may fluctuate between 10 and 25 basis points, depending upon our credit ratings. The competitive advance portion of any borrowings will bear interest at market rates prevailing at the time of borrowing on either a fixed rate or a floating rate based on LIBOR, at our option. 

The terms of the credit agreement include standard provisions related to conditions of borrowing, including a customary material adverse effect clause which could limit our ability to borrow additional funds. In addition, the credit agreement contains customary restrictive and financial covenants as well as customary events of default, including financial covenants regarding the maintenance of a minimum level of net worth of $8.5 billion at December 31, 2015 and a maximum leverage ratio of 3.0 : 1. We are in compliance with the financial covenants, with actual net worth of $10.3 billion and an actual leverage ratio of 1.3 : 1, as measured in accordance with the credit agreement as of December 31, 2015. In addition, the credit agreement includes an uncommitted $250 million incremental loan facility. 

At December 31, 2015, we had no borrowings outstanding under the credit agreement and we had outstanding letters of credit of $1 million secured under the credit agreement. No amounts have been drawn on these letters of credit. Accordingly, as of December 31, 2015, we had $999 million of remaining borrowing capacity under the credit agreement, none of which would be restricted by our financial covenant compliance requirement. We have other customary, arms-length relationships, including financial advisory and banking, with some parties to the credit agreement. 

In October 2014, we entered into a commercial paper program pursuant to which we may issue short-term, unsecured commercial paper notes privately placed on a discount basis through certain broker dealers. Amounts available under the program may be borrowed, repaid and re-borrowed from time to time, with the aggregate face or principal amount outstanding under the program at any time not to exceed $1 billion. 

The maximum principal amount outstanding at any one time during the year endedDecember 31, 2015 was $414 million. There was $299 million outstanding at December 31, 2015. 

Adverse changes in our credit rating may increase the rate of interest we pay and may impact the amount of credit available to us in the future. Our investment-grade credit rating at December 31, 2015 was BBB+ according to Standard& Poors Rating Services, or S&P, and Baa 3 according to Moodys Investors Services, Inc., or Moodys. A downgrade by S&P to BB+ or by Moodys to Ba 1 triggers an interest rate increase of 25 basis points with respect to $750 million of our senior notes. Successive one notch downgrades increase the interest rate an additional 25 basis points, or annual interest expense by $2 million, up to a maximum 100 basis points, or annual interest expense by $8 million. 

In addition, we operate as a holding company in a highly regulated industry. Humana Inc., our parent company, is dependent upon dividends and administrative expense reimbursements from our subsidiaries, most of which are subject to regulatory restrictions. We continue to maintain significant levels of aggregate excess statutory capital and surplus in our state-regulated operating subsidiaries. Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments at the parent company increased to $1.6 billion at December 31, 2015 from $1.4 billion at December 31, 2014. This increase primarily reflects proceeds from the sale of Concentra on June 1, 2015, proceeds from issuance of commercial paper and subsidiary dividends to the parent company, partially offset by funding of subsidiary working capital requirements, common stock repurchases, capital expenditures, and payment of stockholder dividends. Our use of operating cash derived from our non-insurance subsidiaries, such as our Healthcare Services segment, is generally not restricted by Departments of Insurance. Our regulated subsidiaries paid dividends to the parent of $493 million in 2015, $927 million in 2014, and $967 million in 2013. Subsidiary dividends in 2015 reflect the impact of losses for our individual commercial medical business compliant with the Health Care Reform Law and the November 5, 2015 revised statutory accounting guidance requiring the exclusion of risk corridor receivables from related statutory surplus described below. Refer to our parent company financial statements and accompanying notes in Schedule I - Parent Company Financial Information. Excluding Puerto Rico subsidiaries, the amount of ordinary dividends that may be paid to our parent company in 2016 is approximately $900 million, in the aggregate. Actual dividends paid may vary due to consideration of excess statutory capital and surplus and expected future surplus requirements related to, for example, premium volume and product mix. 

On November 5, 2015, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, or NAIC, issued statutory accounting guidance for receivables associated with the risk corridor provisions under the Health Care Reform Law, which requires the receivables to be excluded from subsidiary surplus. This accounting guidance required additional capital contributions into certain subsidiaries during 2015. This statutory accounting guidance does not affect our financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, under which we have recorded a receivable for risk corridor amounts due to us as an obligation of the United States Government under the Health Care Reform Law. At December 31, 2015, our gross risk corridor receivable for the 2014 and 2015 coverage years in the aggregate was $459 million. We expect to record a risk corridor receivable of approximately $340 million in 2016 for the 2016 coverage year. 

Certain regulated subsidiaries recognized premium deficiency reserves for our individual commercial medical policies compliant with the Health Care Reform Law for the 2016 coverage year in the fourth quarter of 2015. Further, the statutory-based premium deficiency excludes the estimated benefit associated with the risk corridor provisions as a reduction in subsidiary surplus in accordance with the previously discussed November 5, 2015 statutory accounting guidance requiring the exclusion of risk corridor amounts from subsidiary surplus. As a result of the statutory-based premium deficiency, we will fund capital contributions into certain regulated subsidiaries of $450 million during the first quarter of 2016. 

In 2015, we paid the federal government $867 million for the annual health insurance industry fee and expect to pay a higher amount in 2016 given an increase in market share. The Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2016, enacted on December 18, 2015, included a one-time one year suspension in 2017 of the health insurer fee. 

For a detailed discussion of our regulatory requirements, including aggregate statutory capital and surplus as well as dividends paid from the subsidiaries to the parent, please refer to Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements included in  8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 

We lease facilities, computer hardware, and other furniture and equipment under long-term operating leases that are noncancelable and expire on various dates through 2026. We sublease facilities or partial facilities to third party tenants for space not used in our operations which partially mitigates our operating lease commitments. An operating lease is a type of off-balance sheet arrangement. Assuming we acquired the asset, rather than leased such asset, we would have recognized a liability for the financing of these assets. See also Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included in  8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 

Purchase obligations include agreements to purchase services, primarily information technology related services, or to make improvements to real estate, in each case that are enforceable and legally binding on us and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum levels of service to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the appropriate timing of the transaction. Purchase obligations exclude agreements that are cancelable without penalty. 

Includes future policy benefits payable ceded to third parties through 100% coinsurance agreements as more fully described in Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements included in  8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. We expect the assuming reinsurance carriers to fund these obligations and reflected these amounts as reinsurance recoverables included in other long-term assets on our consolidated balance sheet. Amounts payable in less than one year are included in trade accounts payable and accrued expenses in the consolidated balance sheet. 

As of December 31, 2015, we were not involved in any special purpose entity, or SPE, transactions. For a detailed discussion off-balance sheet arrangements, please refer to Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included in  8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 

For a detailed discussion our guarantees and indemnifications, please refer to Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included in  8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 

For a detailed discussion of our government contracts, including our Medicare, Military, and Medicaid contracts, please refer to Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included in  8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 

The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements and accompanying notes requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. We continuously evaluate our estimates and those critical accounting policies primarily related to benefits expense and revenue recognition as well as accounting for impairments related to our investment securities, goodwill, and long-lived assets. These estimates are based on knowledge of current events and anticipated future events and, accordingly, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates. We believe the following critical accounting policies involve the most significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. 

Our reserving practice is to consistently recognize the actuarial best point estimate within a level of confidence required by actuarial standards. Actuarial standards of practice generally require a level of confidence such that the liabilities established for IBNR have a greater probability of being adequate versus being insufficient, or such that the liabilities established for IBNR are sufficient to cover obligations under an assumption of moderately adverse conditions. Adverse conditions are situations in which the actual claims are expected to be higher than the otherwise estimated value of such claims at the time of the estimate. Therefore, in many situations, the claim amounts ultimately settled will be less than the estimate that satisfies the actuarial standards of practice. 

We develop our estimate for IBNR using actuarial methodologies and assumptions, primarily based upon historical claim experience. Depending on the period for which incurred claims are estimated, we apply a different method in determining our estimate. For periods prior to the most recent two months, the key assumption used in estimating our IBNR is that the completion factor pattern remains consistent over a rolling 12 -month period after adjusting for known changes in claim inventory levels and known changes in claim payment processes. Completion factors result from the calculation of the percentage of claims incurred during a given period that have historically been adjudicated as of the reporting period. 

The completion factor method is used for the months of incurred claims prior to the most recent two months because the historical percentage of claims processed for those months is at a level sufficient to produce a consistently reliable result. Conversely, for the most recent two months of incurred claims, the volume of claims processed historically is not at a level sufficient to produce a reliable result, which therefore requires us to examine historical trend patterns as the primary method of evaluation. Changes in claim processes, including recoveries of overpayments, receipt cycle times, claim inventory levels, outsourcing, system conversions, and processing disruptions due to weather or other events affect views regarding the reasonable choice of completion factors. Claim payments to providers for services rendered are often net of overpayment recoveries for claims paid previously, as contractually allowed. Claim overpayment recoveries can result from many different factors, including retroactive enrollment activity, audits of provider billings, and/or payment errors. Changes in patterns of claim overpayment recoveries can be unpredictable and result in completion factor volatility, as they often impact older dates of service. The receipt cycle time measures the average length of time between when a medical claim was initially incurred and when the claim form was received. Increases in electronic claim submissions from providers decrease the receipt cycle time. If claims are submitted or processed on a faster (slower) pace than prior periods, the actual claim may be more (less) complete than originally estimated using our completion factors, which may result in reserves that are higher (lower) than required. 

Medical cost trends potentially are more volatile than other segments of the economy. The drivers of medical cost trends include increases in the utilization of hospital facilities, physician services, new higher priced technologies and medical procedures, and new prescription drugs and therapies, as well as the inflationary effect on the cost per unit of each of these expense components. Other external factors such as government-mandated benefits or other regulatory changes, the tort liability system, increases in medical services capacity, direct to consumer advertising for prescription drugs and medical services, an aging population, lifestyle changes including diet and smoking, catastrophes, and epidemics also may impact medical cost trends. Internal factors such as system conversions, claims processing cycle times, changes in medical management practices and changes in provider contracts also may impact our ability to accurately predict estimates of historical completion factors or medical cost trends. All of these factors are considered in estimating IBNR and in estimating the per member per month claims trend for purposes of determining the reserve for the most recent two months. Additionally, we continually prepare and review follow-up studies to assess the reasonableness of the estimates generated by our process and methods over time. The results of these studies are also considered in determining the reserve for the most recent two months. Each of these factors requires significant judgment by management. 

The completion and claims per member per month trend factors are the most significant factors impacting the IBNR estimate. The portion of IBNR estimated using completion factors for claims incurred prior to the most recent two months is generally less variable than the portion of IBNR estimated using trend factors. 

The following table provides a historical perspective regarding the accrual and payment of our benefits payable, excluding military services. Components of the total incurred claims for each year include amounts accrued for current year estimated benefits expense as well as adjustments to prior year estimated accruals. 

The following table summarizes the changes in estimate for incurred claims related to prior years attributable to our key assumptions. As previously described, our key assumptions consist of trend and completion factors estimated using an assumption of moderately adverse conditions. The amounts below represent the difference between our original estimates and the actual benefits expense ultimately incurred as determined from subsequent claim payments. 

As previously discussed, our reserving practice is to consistently recognize the actuarial best estimate of our ultimate liability for claims. Actuarial standards require the use of assumptions based on moderately adverse experience, which generally results in favorable reserve development, or reserves that are considered redundant. We experienced favorable medical claims reserve development related to prior fiscal years of $236 million in 2015, $518 million in 2014, and $474 million in 2013. The table below details our favorable medical claims reserve development related to prior fiscal years by segment for 2015, 2014, and 2013. 

The favorable medical claims reserve development for 2015, 2014, and 2013 primarily reflects the consistent application of trend and completion factors estimated using an assumption of moderately adverse conditions. The decline in favorable prior period development in 2015 primarily was due to the impact of lower financial claim recoveries due in part to our gradual implementation during 2014 of inpatient authorization review prior to admission as opposed to post adjudication, as well as higher than expected flu associated claims from the fourth quarter of 2014 and continued volatility in claims associated with individual commercial medical products. The higher favorable prior period development during 2014 and 2013 resulted from increased membership, better than originally expected utilization across most of our major business lines and increased financial recoveries. The increase in financial recoveries primarily resulted from claim audit process enhancements as well as increased volume of claim audits and expanded audit scope. All lines of business benefited from these improvements. 

We continually adjust our historical trend and completion factor experience with our knowledge of recent events that may impact current trends and completion factors when establishing our reserves. Because our reserving practice is to consistently recognize the actuarial best point estimate using an assumption of moderately adverse conditions as required by actuarial standards, there is a reasonable possibility that variances between actual trend and completion factors and those assumed in our December 31, 2015 estimates would fall towards the middle of the ranges previously presented in our sensitivity table. 

In the fourth quarter of 2015, we recognized a premium deficiency reserve for our individual commercial medical business compliant with the Health Care Reform Law associated with the 2016 coverage year as discussed in more detail in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements included in  8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 

Military services benefits expense for 2015 and 2014 reflect expenses associated with our contracts with the Veterans Administration. Military services benefits expense for 2013 reflects the beneficial effect of a favorable settlement of contract claims with the DoD partially offset by expenses associated with our contracts with the Veterans Administration. 

Certain health policies sold to individuals prior to 2014 (the first year plans compliant with the Health Care Reform Law were effective) are accounted for as long-duration as more fully described below. The reduction in future policy benefits in 2015 reflects the release of reserves as individual commercial medical members transition to plans compliant with the Health Care Reform Law. 

Future policy benefits payable of $2.2 billion and $2.3 billion at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, represent liabilities for long-duration insurance policies including long-term care insurance, life insurance, annuities, and certain health and other supplemental policies sold to individuals for which some of the premium received in the earlier years is intended to pay anticipated benefits to be incurred in future years. At policy issuance, these reserves are recognized on a net level premium method based on premium rate increase, interest rate, mortality, morbidity, persistency (the percentage of policies remaining in-force), and maintenance expense assumptions. Interest rates are based on our expected net investment returns on the investment portfolio supporting the reserves for these blocks of business. Mortality, a measure of expected death, and morbidity, a measure of health status, assumptions are based on published actuarial tables, modified based upon actual experience. The assumptions used to determine the liability for future policy benefits are established and locked in at the time each contract is issued and only change if our expected future experience deteriorates to the point that the level of the liability, together with the present value of future gross premiums, are not adequate to provide for future expected policy benefits and maintenance costs (i.e. the loss recognition date). Because these policies have long-term claim payout periods, there is a greater risk of significant variability in claims costs, either positive or negative. We perform loss recognition tests at least annually in the fourth quarter, and more frequently if adverse events or changes in circumstances indicate that the level of the liability, together with the present value of future gross premiums, may not be adequate to provide for future expected policy benefits and maintenance costs. 

Future policy benefits payable include $1.5 billion at December 31, 2015 and 2014 associated with a non-strategic closed block of long-term care insurance policies acquired in connection with the 2007 acquisition of KMG. Approximately 31,800 policies remain in force as of December 31, 2015. No new policies have been written since 2005 under this closed block. Future policy benefits payable includes amounts charged to accumulated other comprehensive income for an additional liability that would exist on our closed-block of long-term care insurance policies if unrealized gains on the sale of the investments backing such products had been realized and the proceeds reinvested at then current yields. There was no additional liability at December 31, 2015 and $123 million of additional liability at December 31, 2014. Amounts charged to accumulated other comprehensive income are net of applicable deferred taxes. 

Long-term care insurance policies provide nursing home and home health coverage for which premiums are collected many years in advance of benefits paid, if any. Therefore, our actual claims experience will emerge many years after assumptions have been established. The risk of a deviation of the actual interest, morbidity, mortality, and maintenance expense assumptions from those assumed in our reserves are particularly significant to our closed block of long-term care insurance policies. A prolonged period during which interest rates remain at levels lower than those anticipated in our reserving would result in shortfalls in investment income on assets supporting our obligation under long term care policies because the long duration of the policy obligations exceeds the duration of the supporting investment assets. Further, we monitor the loss experience of these long-term care insurance policies and, when necessary, apply for premium rate increases through a regulatory filing and approval process in the jurisdictions in which such products were sold. To the extent premium rate increases, interest rates, and/or loss experience vary from our loss recognition date assumptions, future material adjustments to reserves could be required. 

During 2013, we recorded a loss for a premium deficiency. The premium deficiency was based on current and anticipated experience that had deteriorated from our locked-in assumptions from the previous December 31, 2010 loss recognition date, particularly as they related to emerging experience due to an increase in life expectancies and utilization of home health care services. Based on this deterioration, and combined with lower interest rates, we determined that our existing future policy benefits payable, together with the present value of future gross premiums, associated with our closed block of long-term care insurance policies were not adequate to provide for future policy benefits and maintenance costs under these policies; therefore we unlocked and modified our assumptions based on current expectations. Accordingly, during 2013 we recorded $243 million of additional benefits expense, with a corresponding increase in future policy benefits payable of $350 million partially offset by a related reinsurance recoverable of $107 million included in other long-term assets. 

For our closed block of long-term care policies, actuarial assumptions used to estimate reserves are inherently uncertain due to the potential changes in trends in mortality, morbidity, persistency and interest rates as well as premium rate increases. As a result, our long term care reserves may be subject to material increases if these trends develop adversely to our expectations. The estimated increase in reserves and additional benefit expense from hypothetically modeling adverse variations in our actuarial assumptions, in the aggregate, could be up to $400 million, net of reinsurance. Although such hypothetical revisions are not currently appropriate, we believe they could occur based on past variances in experience and our expectation of the ranges of future experience that could reasonably occur, and any such revision could be material. Generally accepted accounting principles do not allow us to unlock our assumptions for favorable  s. 

In addition, future policy benefits payable includes amounts of $205 million at December 31, 2015, $210 million at December 31, 2014, and $215 million at December 31, 2013 which are subject to 100% coinsurance agreements as more fully described in Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements included in  8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, and as such are offset by a related reinsurance recoverable included in other long-term assets. 

We generally establish one-year commercial membership contracts with employer groups, subject to cancellation by the employer group on 30 -day written notice. Our Medicare contracts with CMS renew annually. Our military services contracts with the federal government and our contracts with various state Medicaid programs generally are multi-year contracts subject to annual renewal provisions. 

Our commercial contracts establish rates on a per employee basis for each month of coverage based on the type of coverage purchased (single to family coverage options). Our Medicare and Medicaid contracts also establish monthly rates per member. However, our Medicare contracts also have additional provisions as outlined in the following separate section. 

Premiums revenue and administrative services only, or ASO, fees are estimated by multiplying the membership covered under the various contracts by the contractual rates. In addition, we adjust revenues for estimated changes in an employers enrollment and individuals that ultimately may fail to pay, and for estimated rebates under the minimum benefit ratios required under the Health Care Reform Law. 

We bill and collect premium from employer groups and members in our Medicare and other individual products monthly. We receive monthly premiums from the federal government and various states according to government specified payment rates and various contractual terms. Changes in revenues from for our Medicare and individual commercial medical products resulting from the periodic changes in risk-adjustment scores derived from medical diagnoses for our membership are recognized when the amounts become determinable and the collectibility is reasonably assured. 

CMS utilizes a risk-adjustment model which apportions premiums paid to Medicare Advantage plans according to health severity. The risk-adjustment model pays more for enrollees with predictably higher costs. Under the risk-adjustment methodology, all Medicare Advantage plans must collect and submit the necessary diagnosis code information from hospital inpatient, hospital outpatient, and physician providers to CMS within prescribed deadlines. The CMS risk-adjustment model uses this diagnosis data to calculate the risk-adjusted premium payment to Medicare Advantage plans. Rates paid to Medicare Advantage plans are established under an actuarial bid model, including a process that bases our payments on a comparison of our beneficiaries risk scores, derived from medical diagnoses, to those enrolled in the governments Medicare FFS program. We generally rely on providers, including certain providers in our network who are our employees, to code their claim submissions with appropriate diagnoses, which we send to CMS as the basis for our payment received from CMS under the actuarial risk-adjustment model. We also rely on providers to appropriately document all medical data, including the diagnosis data submitted with claims. We estimate risk-adjustment revenues based on medical diagnoses for our membership. The risk-adjustment model is more fully described in  1. Business under the section titled Individual Medicare. 

Investment securities totaled $9.1 billion, or 37% of total assets at December 31, 2015, and $9.5 billion, or 41% of total assets at December 31, 2014. Debt securities, detailed below, comprised this entire investment portfolio at December 31, 2015 and 2014. 

Tax-exempt municipal securities included pre-refunded bonds of $178 million at December 31, 2015 and $199 million at December 31, 2014. These pre-refunded bonds were secured by an escrow fund consisting of U.S. government obligations sufficient to pay off all amounts outstanding at maturity. The ratings of these pre-refunded bonds generally assume the rating of the government obligations at the time the fund is established. Tax-exempt municipal securities that were not pre-refunded were diversified among general obligation bonds of U.S. states and local municipalities as well as special revenue bonds. General obligation bonds, which are backed by the taxing power and full faith of the issuer, accounted for $1.0 billion of these municipals in the portfolio. Special revenue bonds, issued by a municipality to finance a specific public works project such as utilities, water and sewer, transportation, or education, and supported by the revenues of that project, accounted for $1.4 billion of these municipals. Our general obligation bonds are diversified across the U.S. with no individual state exceeding 11%. In addition, certain monoline insurers guarantee the timely repayment of bond principal and interest when a bond issuer defaults and generally provide credit enhancement for bond issues related to our tax-exempt municipal securities. We have no direct exposure to these monoline insurers. We owned $173 million and $484 million at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, of tax-exempt securities guaranteed by monoline insurers. The equivalent weighted average S&P credit rating of these tax-exempt securities without the guarantee from the monoline insurer was AA. 

Our direct exposure to subprime mortgage lending is limited to investment in residential mortgage-backed securities and asset-backed securities backed by home equity loans. The fair value of securities backed by Alt-A and subprime loans was $1 million at December 31, 2015 and 2014. There are no collateralized debt obligations or structured investment vehicles in our investment portfolio. The percentage of corporate securities associated with the financial services industry was 25% at December 31, 2015 and 21% at December 31, 2014. 

When we do not intend to sell a security in an unrealized loss position, potential other-than-temporary impairment is considered using a variety of factors, including the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than cost; adverse conditions specifically related to the industry, geographic area or financial condition of the issuer or underlying collateral of a security; payment structure of the security; changes in credit rating of the security by the rating agencies; the volatility of the fair value changes; and changes in fair value of the security after the balance sheet date. For debt securities, we take into account expectations of relevant market and economic data. For example, with respect to mortgage and asset-backed securities, such data includes underlying loan level data and structural features such as seniority and other forms of credit enhancements. A decline in fair value is considered other-than-temporary when we do not expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security. We estimate the amount of the credit loss component of a debt security as the difference between the amortized cost and the present value of the expected cash flows of the security. The present value is determined using the best estimate of future cash flows discounted at the implicit interest rate at the date of purchase. The risks inherent in assessing the impairment of an investment include the risk that market factors may differ from our expectations, facts and circumstances factored into our assessment may change with the passage of time, or we may decide to subsequently sell the investment. The determination of whether a decline in the value of an investment is other than temporary requires us to exercise significant diligence and judgment. The discovery of new information and the passage of time can significantly change these judgments. The status of the general economic environment and significant changes in the national securities markets influence the determination of fair value and the assessment of investment impairment. There is a continuing risk that declines in fair value may occur and additional material realized losses from sales or other-than-temporary impairments may be recorded in future periods. 

The recoverability of our non-agency residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities is supported by factors such as seniority, underlying collateral characteristics and credit enhancements. These residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities at December 31, 2015 primarily were composed of senior tranches having high credit support, with over 99% of the collateral consisting of prime loans. The weighted average credit rating of all commercial mortgage-backed securities was AA+ at December 31, 2015. 

All issuers of securities we own that were trading at an unrealized loss at December 31, 2015 remain current on all contractual payments. After taking into account these and other factors previously described, we believe these unrealized losses primarily were caused by an increase in market interest rates in the current markets than when the securities were purchased. At December 31, 2015, we did not intend to sell the securities with an unrealized loss position in accumulated other comprehensive income, and it is not likely that we will be required to sell these securities before recovery of their amortized cost basis. As a result, we believe that the securities with an unrealized loss were not other-than-temporarily impaired at December 31, 2015. There were no material other-than-temporary impairments in 2015, 2014, or 2013. 

We are required to test at least annually for impairment at a level of reporting referred to as the reporting unit, and more frequently if adverse events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset may be impaired. A reporting unit either is our operating segments or one level below the operating segments, referred to as a component, which comprise our reportable segments. A component is considered a reporting unit if the component constitutes a business for which discrete financial information is available that is regularly reviewed by management. We are required to aggregate the components of an operating segment into one reporting unit if they have similar economic characteristics. Goodwill is assigned to the reporting unit that is expected to benefit from a specific acquisition. The carrying amount of goodwill for our reportable segments has been retrospectively adjusted to conform to the 2015 segment change discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements included in  8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 

We use a two-step process to review goodwill for impairment. The first step is a screen for potential impairment, and the second step measures the amount of impairment, if any. Our strategy, long-range business plan, and annual planning process support our goodwill impairment tests. These tests are performed, at a minimum, annually in the fourth quarter, and are based on an evaluation of future discounted cash flows. We rely on this discounted cash flow analysis to determine fair value. However outcomes from the discounted cash flow analysis are compared to other market approach valuation methodologies for reasonableness. We use discount rates that correspond to a market-based weighted-average cost of capital and terminal growth rates that correspond to long-term growth prospects, consistent with the long-term inflation rate. Key assumptions in our cash flow projections, including changes in membership, premium yields, medical and operating cost trends, and certain government contract extensions, are consistent with those utilized in our long-range business plan and annual planning process. If these assumptions differ from actual, including the impact of the Health Care Reform Law, the estimates underlying our goodwill impairment tests could be adversely affected. Goodwill impairment tests completed in each of the last three years did not result in an impairment loss. The fair value of our reporting units with significant goodwill exceeded carrying amounts by a substantial margin. A 100 basis point increase in the discount rate would not have a significant impact on the amount of margin for any of our reporting units with significant goodwill, with the exception of our provider services reporting unit in our Healthcare Services segment. The provider services reporting unit would decline to approximately 10% margin after factoring in a 100 basis point increase in the discount rate. 

Long-lived assets consist of property and equipment and other finite-lived intangible assets. These assets are depreciated or amortized over their estimated useful life, and are subject to impairment reviews. We periodically review long-lived assets whenever adverse events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of the asset may not be recoverable. In assessing recoverability, we must make assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows and other factors to determine if an impairment loss may exist, and, if so, estimate fair value. We also must estimate and make assumptions regarding the useful life we assign to our long-lived assets. If these estimates or their related assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record impairment losses or change the useful life, including accelerating depreciation or amortization for these assets. There were no material impairment losses in the last three years.